<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:23:02 2012 -->
<title>BDFTOPCF</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>BDFTOPCF</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">bdftopcf
&minus; convert X font from Bitmap Distribution Format to
Portable Compiled Format</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>bdftopcf</b>
[ <b>&minus;p</b><i>n</i> ] [ <b>&minus;u</b><i>n</i> ] [
<b>&minus;m</b> ] [ <b>&minus;l</b> ] [ <b>&minus;M</b> ] [
<b>&minus;L</b> ] [ <b>&minus;t</b> ] [ <b>&minus;i</b> ] [
<b>&minus;o</b> <i>outputfile</i> ] fontfile.bdf</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Bdftopcf</i>
is a font compiler for the X server and font server. Fonts
in Portable Compiled Format can be read by any architecture,
although the file is structured to allow one particular
architecture to read them directly without reformatting.
This allows fast reading on the appropriate machine, but the
files are still portable (but read more slowly) on other
machines.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="4%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;p</b><i>n</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Sets the font glyph padding.
Each glyph in the font will have each scanline padded in to
a multiple of <i>n</i> bytes, where <i>n</i> is 1, 2, 4 or
8.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;u</b><i>n</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Sets the font scanline unit. When the font bit order is
different from the font byte order, the scanline unit
<i>n</i> describes what unit of data (in bytes) are to be
swapped; the unit <i>i</i> can be 1, 2 or 4 bytes.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;m</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Sets the font bit order to MSB (most significant bit)
first. Bits for each glyph will be placed in this order;
i.e., the left most bit on the screen will be in the highest
valued bit in each unit.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;l</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Sets the font bit order to LSB (least significant bit)
first. The left most bit on the screen will be in the lowest
valued bit in each unit.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;M</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Sets the font byte order to MSB first. All multi-byte
data in the file (metrics, bitmaps and everything else) will
be written most significant byte first.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;L</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Sets the font byte order to LSB first. All multi-byte
data in the file (metrics, bitmaps and everything else) will
be written least significant byte first.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;t</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>When this option is specified, <i>bdftopcf</i> will
convert fonts into &quot;terminal&quot; fonts when possible.
A terminal font has each glyph image padded to the same
size; the X server can usually render these types of fonts
more quickly.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;i</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option inhibits the normal computation of ink
metrics. When a font has glyph images which do not fill the
bitmap image (i.e., the &quot;on&quot; pixels don&rsquo;t
extend to the edges of the metrics) <i>bdftopcf</i> computes
the actual ink metrics and places them in the .pcf file; the
&minus;t option inhibits this behaviour.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;o</b>
<i>output-file-name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">By default <i>bdftopcf</i>
writes the pcf file to standard output; this option gives
the name of a file to be used instead.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading6">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Keith Packard,
MIT X Consortium</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
