<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:41 2012 -->
<title>LNDIR</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>LNDIR</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">DIAGNOSTICS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">lndir &minus;
create a shadow directory of symbolic links to another
directory tree</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>lndir</b> [
<b>&minus;silent</b> ] [ <b>&minus;ignorelinks</b> ] [
<b>&minus;withrevinfo</b> ] <i>fromdir</i> [ <i>todir</i>
]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>lndir</i> program makes a shadow copy <i>todir</i> of a
directory tree <i>fromdir,</i> except that the shadow is not
populated with real files but instead with symbolic links
pointing at the real files in the <i>fromdir</i> directory
tree. This is usually useful for maintaining source code for
different machine architectures. You create a shadow
directory containing links to the real source, which you
will have usually mounted from a remote machine. You can
build in the shadow tree, and the object files will be in
the shadow directory, while the source files in the shadow
directory are just symlinks to the real files.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This scheme has
the advantage that if you update the source, you need not
propagate the change to the other architectures by hand,
since all source in all shadow directories are symlinks to
the real thing: just cd to the shadow directory and
recompile away.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>todir</i> argument is optional and defaults to the
current directory. The <i>fromdir</i> argument may be
relative (e.g., ../src) and is relative to <i>todir</i> (not
the current directory).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Note that
BitKeeper, CVS, CVS.adm, .git, .hg, RCS, SCCS, and .svn
directories are shadowed only if the
<b>&minus;withrevinfo</b> flag is specified. Files with
names ending in <i>~</i> are never shadowed.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If you add
files, simply run <i>lndir</i> again. New files will be
silently added. Old files will be checked that they have the
correct link.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Deleting files
is a more painful problem; the symlinks will just point into
never never land.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If a file in
<i>fromdir</i> is a symbolic link, <i>lndir</i> will make
the same link in <i>todir</i> rather than making a link back
to the (symbolic link) entry in <i>fromdir.</i> The
<b>&minus;ignorelinks</b> flag changes this behavior.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">&minus;silent</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Normally <i>lndir</i> outputs
the name of each subdirectory as it descends into it. The
<b>&minus;silent</b> option suppresses these status
messages.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">&minus;ignorelinks</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Causes the program to not treat
symbolic links in <i>fromdir</i> specially. The link created
in <i>todir</i> will point back to the corresponding
(symbolic link) file in <i>fromdir</i>. If the link is to a
directory, this is almost certainly the wrong thing.</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">This option
exists mostly to emulate the behavior the C version of
<i>lndir</i> had in X11R6. Its use is not recommended.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">&minus;withrevinfo</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Causes any source control
manager subdirectories (those named BitKeeper, CVS, CVS.adm,
.git, .hg, RCS, SCCS, or .svn) to be treated as any other
directory, rather than ignored.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">DIAGNOSTICS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The program
displays the name of each subdirectory it enters, followed
by a colon. The <b>&minus;silent</b> option suppresses these
messages.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">A warning
message is displayed if the symbolic link cannot be created.
The usual problem is that a regular file of the same name
already exists.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If the link
already exists but doesn&rsquo;t point to the correct file,
the program prints the link name and the location where it
does point.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/ln.1.xhtml"><em>ln</em>(1)</a>.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
