<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:46 2012 -->
<title>LUIT</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>LUIT</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">EXAMPLES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">FILES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SECURITY</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">BUGS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading9">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading10">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">luit &minus;
Locale and ISO&nbsp;2022 support for Unicode terminals</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>luit</b> [
<i>options</i> ] [ <b>&minus;&minus;</b> ] [ <i>program</i>
[ <i>args</i> ] ]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Luit</b> is
a filter that can be run between an arbitrary application
and a UTF-8 terminal emulator. It will convert application
output from the locale&rsquo;s encoding into UTF-8, and
convert terminal input from UTF-8 into the locale&rsquo;s
encoding.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">An application
may also request switching to a different output encoding
using ISO&nbsp;2022 and ISO&nbsp;6429 escape sequences. Use
of this feature is discouraged: multilingual applications
should be modified to directly generate UTF-8 instead.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Luit</b> is
usually invoked transparently by the terminal emulator. For
information about running <b>luit</b> from the command line,
see EXAMPLES below.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="7%"></col>
<col width="4%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;h</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Display some summary help and
quit.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;list</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>List the supported charsets and encodings, then
quit.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;V</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Print luit&rsquo;s version and quit.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;v</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Be verbose.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;c</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Function as a simple converter from standard input to
standard output.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;p</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>In startup, establish a handshake between parent and
child processes. This is needed for some systems, e.g.,
FreeBSD.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;x</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Exit as soon as the child dies. This may cause
<b>luit</b> to lose data at the end of the child&rsquo;s
output.</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;argv0</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set the child&rsquo;s name (as
passed in argv[0]).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;encoding</b>
<i>encoding</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set up <b>luit</b> to use
<i>encoding</i> rather than the current locale&rsquo;s
encoding.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>+oss</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Disable interpretation of single shifts in application
output.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>+ols</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Disable interpretation of locking shifts in application
output.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>+osl</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Disable interpretation of character set selection
sequences in application output.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>+ot</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Disable interpretation of all sequences and pass all
sequences in application output to the terminal unchanged.
This may lead to interesting results.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;k7</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Generate seven-bit characters for keyboard input.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>+kss</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Disable generation of single-shifts for keyboard
input.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>+kssgr</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Use GL codes after a single shift for keyboard input. By
default, GR codes are generated after a single shift when
generating eight-bit keyboard input.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;kls</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Generate locking shifts (SO/SI) for keyboard input.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;gl</b> <i>gn</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Set the initial assignment of GL. The argument should be
one of <b>g0</b>, <b>g1</b>, <b>g2</b> or <b>g3</b>. The
default depends on the locale, but is usually <b>g0</b>.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;gr</b> <i>gk</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Set the initial assignment of GR. The default depends on
the locale, and is usually <b>g2</b> except for EUC locales,
where it is <b>g1</b>.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;g0</b>
<i>charset</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set the charset initially
selected in G0. The default depends on the locale, but is
usually <b>ASCII</b>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;g1</b>
<i>charset</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set the charset initially
selected in G1. The default depends on the locale.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;g2</b>
<i>charset</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set the charset initially
selected in G2. The default depends on the locale.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;g3</b>
<i>charset</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set the charset initially
selected in G3. The default depends on the locale.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;ilog</b>
<i>filename</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Log into <i>filename</i> all
the bytes received from the child.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;olog</b>
<i>filename</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Log into <i>filename</i> all
the bytes sent to the terminal emulator.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;alias</b>
<i>filename</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">the locale alias file <br/>
(default:
/usr/share/X11/locale/locale.alias).</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="23%"></col>
<col width="55%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;&minus;</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>End of options.</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">EXAMPLES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The most
typical use of <b>luit</b> is to adapt an instance of
<b>XTerm</b> to the locale&rsquo;s encoding. Current
versions of <b>XTerm</b> invoke <b>luit</b> automatically
when it is needed. If you are using an older release of
<b>XTerm</b>, or a different terminal emulator, you may
invoke <b>luit</b> manually:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">$ xterm
&minus;u8 &minus;e luit</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If you are
running in a UTF-8 locale but need to access a remote
machine that doesn&rsquo;t support UTF-8, <b>luit</b> can
adapt the remote output to your terminal:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">$ LC_ALL=fr_FR
luit ssh legacy-machine</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Luit</b> is
also useful with applications that hard-wire an encoding
that is different from the one normally used on the system
or want to use legacy escape sequences for multilingual
output. In particular, versions of <b>Emacs</b> that do not
speak UTF-8 well can use <b>luit</b> for multilingual
output:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">$ luit
-encoding &rsquo;ISO 8859-1&rsquo; emacs -nw</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">And then, in
<b>Emacs</b>,</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">M-x
set-terminal-coding-system RET iso-2022-8bit-ss2 RET</p>

<h2 id="heading6">FILES
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>/usr/share/X11/locale/locale.alias</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">The file mapping locales to
locale encodings.</p>

<h2 id="heading7">SECURITY
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">On systems with
SVR4 (&ldquo;Unix-98&rdquo;) ptys (Linux version 2.2 and
later, SVR4), <b>luit</b> should be run as the invoking
user.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">On systems
without SVR4 (&ldquo;Unix-98&rdquo;) ptys (notably BSD
variants), running <b>luit</b> as an ordinary user will
leave the tty world-writable; this is a security hole, and
luit will generate a warning (but still accept to run). A
possible solution is to make <b>luit</b> suid root;
<b>luit</b> should drop privileges sufficiently early to
make this safe. However, the startup code has not been
exhaustively audited, and the author takes no responsibility
for any resulting security issues.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Luit</b>
will refuse to run if it is installed setuid and cannot
safely drop privileges.</p>

<h2 id="heading8">BUGS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">None of this
complexity should be necessary. Stateless UTF-8 throughout
the system is the way to go.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Charsets with a
non-trivial intermediary byte are not yet supported.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Selecting
alternate sets of control characters is not supported and
will never be.</p>

<h2 id="heading9">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/xterm.1.xhtml"><em>xterm</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man7/unicode.7.xhtml"><em>unicode</em>(7)</a>, utf-<a href="../man7/8.7.xhtml"><em>8</em>(7)</a>, <a href="../man7/charsets.7.xhtml"><em>charsets</em>(7)</a>. <i><br/>
Character Code Structure and Extension Techniques
(ISO&nbsp;2022, ECMA-35)</i>. <i><br/>
Control Functions for Coded Character Sets (ISO&nbsp;6429,
ECMA-48)</i>.</p>

<h2 id="heading10">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The version of
<b>Luit</b> included in this X.Org Foundation release was
originally written by Juliusz Chroboczek
&lt;jch@freedesktop.org&gt; for the XFree86 Project and
includes additional contributions from Thomas E. Dickey
required for newer releases of <a href="../man1/xterm.1.xhtml"><em>xterm</em>(1)</a>.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
