<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:42 2012 -->
<title>SESSREG</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>SESSREG</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">USAGE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">sessreg &minus;
manage utmp/wtmp entries for non-init clients</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>sessreg</b>
[-w <i>wtmp-file</i>] [-u <i>utmp-file</i>] [-L
<i>lastlog-file</i>] [-l <i>line-name</i>] [-h
<i>host-name</i>] [-s <i>slot-number</i>] [-x
<i>Xservers-file</i>] [-t <i>ttys-file</i>] [-a] [-d]
<i>user-name</i></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Sessreg</i>
is a simple program for managing utmp/wtmp and lastlog
entries for xdm sessions.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">System V has a
better interface to utmp than BSD; it dynamically allocates
entries in the file, instead of writing them at fixed
positions indexed by position in <b>/etc/ttys</b>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">To manage
BSD-style utmp files, <i>sessreg</i> has two strategies. In
conjunction with xdm, the -x option counts the number of
lines in <b>/etc/ttys</b> and then adds to that the number
of the line in the Xservers file which specifies the
display. The display name must be specified as the
&quot;line-name&quot; using the -l option. This sum is used
as the &quot;slot-number&quot; in the utmp file that this
entry will be written at. In the more general case, the -s
option specifies the slot-number directly. If for some
strange reason your system uses a file other than
<b>/etc/ttys</b> to manage init, the -t option can direct
<i>sessreg</i> to look elsewhere for a count of terminal
sessions.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Conversely,
System V managers will not ever need to use these options
(-x, -s and -t). To make the program easier to document and
explain, <i>sessreg</i> accepts the BSD-specific flags in
the System V environment and ignores them.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">BSD and Linux
also have a host-name field in the utmp file which
doesn&rsquo;t exist in System V. This option is also ignored
by the System V version of <i>sessreg</i>.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">USAGE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">In Xstartup,
place a call like:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">sessreg -a -l
$DISPLAY -x /etc/X11/xdm/Xservers $USER</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">and in
Xreset:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">sessreg -d -l
$DISPLAY -x /etc/X11/xdm/Xservers $USER</p>

<h2 id="heading5">OPTIONS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>-w</b>
<i>wtmp-file</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This specifies an alternate
wtmp file, instead of <b>/var/log/wtmp</b>. The special name
&quot;none&quot; disables writing records to the wtmp
file.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-u</b> <i>utmp-file</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This specifies an alternate
utmp file, instead of <b>/var/run/utmp</b>. The special name
&quot;none&quot; disables writing records to the utmp
file.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-L</b>
<i>lastlog-file</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This specifies an alternate
lastlog file, instead of <b>/var/log/lastlog</b>, if the
platform supports lastlog files. The special name
&quot;none&quot; disables writing records to the lastlog
file.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-l</b> <i>line-name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This describes the
&quot;line&quot; name of the entry. For terminal sessions,
this is the final pathname segment of the terminal device
filename (e.g. ttyd0). For X sessions, it should probably be
the local display name given to the users session (e.g. :0).
If none is specified, the terminal name will be determined
with <a href="../man3/ttyname.3.xhtml"><em>ttyname</em>(3)</a> and stripped of leading components.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-h</b> <i>host-name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This is set for BSD hosts to
indicate that the session was initiated from a remote host.
In typical xdm usage, this options is not used.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-s</b>
<i>slot-number</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Each potential session has a
unique slot number in BSD systems, most are identified by
the position of the <i>line-name</i> in the
<b>/etc/ttys</b>file. This option overrides the default
position determined with <a href="../man3/ttyslot.3.xhtml"><em>ttyslot</em>(3)</a>. This option is
inappropriate for use with xdm, the -x option is more
useful.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-x</b>
<i>Xservers-file</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">As X sessions are
one-per-display, and each display is entered in this file,
this options sets the <i>slot-number</i> to be the number of
lines in the <i>ttys-file</i> plus the index into this file
that the <i>line-name</i> is found.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-t</b> <i>ttys-file</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This specifies an alternate
file which the <i>-x</i> option will use to count the number
of terminal sessions on a host.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-a</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This session should be added to utmp/wtmp.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-d</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This session should be deleted from utmp/wtmp. One of
-a/-d must be specified.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/xdm.1.xhtml"><em>xdm</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/utmpx.5.xhtml"><em>utmpx</em>(5)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Keith Packard,
MIT X Consortium</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
