<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:53 2012 -->
<title>XCURSORGEN</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XCURSORGEN</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">SEE ALSO</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xcursorgen
&minus; create an X cursor file from a collection of PNG
images</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xcursorgen</b>
[ <b>&minus;V</b> ] [ <b>&minus;&minus;version</b> ] [
<b>&minus;?</b> ] [ <b>&minus;&minus;help</b> ] [
<b>&minus;p</b> <i>dir</i> ] [ <b>&minus;&minus;prefix</b>
<i>dir</i> ] [ <i>config-file</i> [ <i>output-file</i> ]
]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Xcursorgen
reads the <i>config-file</i> to find the list of cursor
images along with their hotspot and nominal size
information. Xcursorgen converts all of the images to
Xcursor format and writes them to the
<i>output-file</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Each line in
the config file is of the form: <br/>
&lt;size&gt; &lt;xhot&gt; &lt;yhot&gt; &lt;filename&gt;
&lt;ms-delay&gt;</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Multiple images
with the same &lt;size&gt; are used to create animated
cursors, the &lt;ms-delay&gt; value on each line indicates
how long each image should be displayed before switching to
the next. &lt;ms-delay&gt; can be elided for static
cursors.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If
<i>config-file</i> is not specified, or is specified as
&quot;-&quot;, standard input is used for the configuration
file. If <i>output-file</i> is not specified, or is
specified as &quot;-&quot;, standard output is used for the
output file.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;V</b>,
<b>&minus;&minus;version</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Display the version number and
exit.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;?</b>,
<b>&minus;&minus;help</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Display the usage message and
exit.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;p</b> <i>dir</i>,
<b>&minus;&minus;prefix</b> <i>dir</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Find cursor images in the
directory specified by <i>dir</i>. If not specified, the
current directory is used.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">SEE ALSO
</h2>

 
<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man3/Xcursor.3.xhtml"><em>Xcursor</em>(3)</a></p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
