<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:55 2012 -->
<title>XWD</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XWD</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">ENVIRONMENT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">FILES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xwd - dump an
image of an X window</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xwd</b>
[-debug] [-help] [-nobdrs] [-out <i>file</i>] [-xy] [-frame]
[-add <i>value</i>] [-root | -id <i>id</i> | -name
<i>name</i> ] [-icmap] [-screen] [-silent] [-display
<i>display</i>]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Xwd</i> is
an X Window System window dumping utility. <i>Xwd</i> allows
X users to store window images in a specially formatted dump
file. This file can then be read by various other X
utilities for redisplay, printing, editing, formatting,
archiving, image processing, etc. The target window is
selected by clicking the pointer in the desired window. The
keyboard bell is rung once at the beginning of the dump and
twice when the dump is completed.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>-display</b>
<i>display</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This argument allows you to
specify the server to connect to; see <i><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></i>.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-help</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Print out the &lsquo;Usage:&rsquo; command syntax
summary.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-nobdrs</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This argument specifies that the window dump should not
include the pixels that compose the X window border. This is
useful in situations where you may wish to include the
window contents in a document as an illustration.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-out</b> <i>file</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This argument allows the user
to explicitly specify the output file on the command line.
The default is to output to standard out.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="4%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-xy</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option applies to color displays only. It selects
&lsquo;XY&rsquo; format dumping instead of the default
&lsquo;Z&rsquo; format.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-add</b> <i>value</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies an signed
value to be added to every pixel.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-frame</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that the window manager frame
should be included when manually selecting a window.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-root</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that the root window should be
selected for the window dump, without requiring the user to
select a window with the pointer.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-id</b> <i>id</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that the window with the specified
resource id should be selected for the window dump, without
requiring the user to select a window with the pointer.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-name</b> <i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option indicates that the
window with the specified WM_NAME property should be
selected for the window dump, without requiring the user to
select a window with the pointer.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-icmap</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Normally the colormap of the chosen window is used to
obtain RGB values. This option forces the first installed
colormap of the screen to be used instead.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-screen</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that the GetImage request used to
obtain the image should be done on the root window, rather
than directly on the specified window. In this way, you can
obtain pieces of other windows that overlap the specified
window, and more importantly, you can capture menus or other
popups that are independent windows but appear over the
specified window.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-silent</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Operate silently, i.e. don&rsquo;t ring any bells before
and after dumping the window.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">ENVIRONMENT
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="60%"></col>
<col width="17%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>DISPLAY</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">To get default host and display
number.</p> </td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading6">FILES
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>XWDFile.h</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">X Window Dump File format
definition file.</p>

<h2 id="heading7">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/xwud.1.xhtml"><em>xwud</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading8">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Tony Della
Fera, Digital Equipment Corp., MIT Project Athena <br/>
William F. Wyatt, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
