<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:48 2012 -->
<title>XWININFO</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XWININFO</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">EXAMPLE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">ENVIRONMENT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">BUGS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading9">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xwininfo
&minus; window information utility for X</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xwininfo</b>
[&minus;help] [&minus;id <i>id</i>] [&minus;root]
[&minus;name <i>name</i>] [&minus;int] [&minus;children]
[&minus;tree] [&minus;stats] [&minus;bits] [&minus;events]
[&minus;size] [&minus;wm] [&minus;shape] [&minus;frame]
[&minus;all] [&minus;english] [&minus;metric]
[&minus;display <i>display</i>]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Xwininfo</i>
is a utility for displaying information about windows.
Various information is displayed depending on which options
are selected. If no options are chosen, <b>&minus;stats</b>
is assumed.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The user has
the option of selecting the target window with the mouse (by
clicking any mouse button in the desired window) or by
specifying its window id on the command line with the
<b>&minus;id</b> option. Or instead of specifying the window
by its id number, the <b>&minus;name</b> option may be used
to specify which window is desired by name. There is also a
special <b>&minus;root</b> option to quickly obtain
information on the screen&rsquo;s root window.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;help</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Print out the
&lsquo;Usage:&rsquo; command syntax summary.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;id</b> <i>id</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option allows the user to specify a target window
<i>id</i> on the command line rather than using the mouse to
select the target window. This is very useful in debugging X
applications where the target window is not mapped to the
screen or where the use of the mouse might be impossible or
interfere with the application.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;name</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option allows the user to
specify that the window named <i>name</i> is the target
window on the command line rather than using the mouse to
select the target window.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="7%"></col>
<col width="5%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;root</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option specifies that X&rsquo;s root window is the
target window. This is useful in situations where the root
window is completely obscured.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;int</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option specifies that all X window ids should be
displayed as integer values. The default is to display them
as hexadecimal values.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;children</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option causes the root,
parent, and children windows&rsquo; ids and names of the
selected window to be displayed.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;tree</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option is like <b>&minus;children</b> but displays
all children recursively.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;stats</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option causes the display of various attributes
pertaining to the location and appearance of the selected
window. Information displayed includes the location of the
window, its width and height, its depth, border width,
visual id and class, colormap id if any, map state,
backing-store hint, and location of the corners.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;bits</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option causes the display of various attributes
pertaining to the selected window&rsquo;s raw bits and how
the selected window is to be stored. Displayed information
includes the selected window&rsquo;s bit gravity, window
gravity, backing-store hint, backing-planes value, backing
pixel, and whether or not the window has save-under set.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;events</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option causes the selected window&rsquo;s event
masks to be displayed. Both the event mask of events wanted
by some client and the event mask of events not to propagate
are displayed.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;size</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option causes the selected window&rsquo;s sizing
hints to be displayed. Displayed information includes: for
both the normal size hints and the zoom size hints, the user
supplied location if any; the program supplied location if
any; the user supplied size if any; the program supplied
size if any; the minimum size if any; the maximum size if
any; the resize increments if any; and the minimum and
maximum aspect ratios if any.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;wm</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option causes the selected window&rsquo;s window
manager hints to be displayed. Information displayed may
include whether or not the application accepts input, what
the window&rsquo;s icon window # and name is, where the
window&rsquo;s icon should go, and what the window&rsquo;s
initial state should be.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;shape</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option causes the selected window&rsquo;s window
and border shape extents to be displayed.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;frame</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option causes window manager frames to be
considered when manually selecting windows.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;metric</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option causes all individual height, width, and x
and y positions to be displayed in millimeters as well as
number of pixels, based on what the server thinks the
resolution is. Geometry specifications that are in
<b>+x+y</b> form are not changed.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;english</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option causes all
individual height, width, and x and y positions to be
displayed in inches (and feet, yards, and miles if
necessary) as well as number of pixels. <b>&minus;metric</b>
and <b>&minus;english</b> may both be enabled at the same
time.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="6%"></col>
<col width="6%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;all</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option is a quick way to ask for all information
possible.</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;display</b>
<i>display</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option allows you to
specify the server to connect to; see <i><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></i>.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">EXAMPLE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
is a sample summary taken with no options specified:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xwininfo:
Window id: 0x60000f &quot;xterm&quot;</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Absolute
upper-left X: 2 <br/>
Absolute upper-left Y: 85 <br/>
Relative upper-left X: 0 <br/>
Relative upper-left Y: 25 <br/>
Width: 579 <br/>
Height: 316 <br/>
Depth: 8 <br/>
Visual: 0x1e <br/>
Visual Class: PseudoColor <br/>
Border width: 0 <br/>
Class: InputOutput <br/>
Colormap: 0x27 (installed) <br/>
Bit Gravity State: NorthWestGravity <br/>
Window Gravity State: NorthWestGravity <br/>
Backing Store State: NotUseful <br/>
Save Under State: no <br/>
Map State: IsViewable <br/>
Override Redirect State: no <br/>
Corners: +2+85 -699+85 -699-623 +2-623 <br/>
-geometry 80x24+0+58</p>

<h2 id="heading6">ENVIRONMENT
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="66%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>DISPLAY</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">To get the default host and
display number.</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading7">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>,
<a href="../man1/xprop.1.xhtml"><em>xprop</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/xdpyinfo.1.xhtml"><em>xdpyinfo</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/xdriinfo.1.xhtml"><em>xdriinfo</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man1/xvinfo.1.xhtml"><em>xvinfo</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/glxinfo.1.xhtml"><em>glxinfo</em>(1)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading8">BUGS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Using
<b>&minus;stats &minus;bits</b> shows some redundant
information.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>-geometry</b> string displayed must make assumptions
about the window&rsquo;s border width and the behavior of
the application and the window manager. As a result, the
location given is not always correct.</p>

<h2 id="heading9">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Mark
Lillibridge, MIT Project Athena</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
