<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:48 2012 -->
<title>Compose</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>Compose</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">FILE FORMAT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">ENVIRONMENT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">FILES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Compose &minus;
X client mappings for multi-key input sequences</p>

<h2 id="heading2">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The X library,
libX11, provides a simple input method for characters beyond
those represented on typical keyboards using sequences of
key strokes that are combined to enter a single
character.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The compose
file is searched for in the following order:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%"></col>
<col width="10%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>-</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>If the environment variable <b>$XCOMPOSEFILE</b> is set,
its value is used as the name of the Compose file.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>-</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>If the user&rsquo;s home directory has a file named
<i>.XCompose</i>, it is used as the Compose file.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>-</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>The system provided compose file is used by mapping the
locale to a compose file from the list in
<i>/usr/share/X11/locale/compose.dir</i>.</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Compose files
can use an &quot;<b>include</b>&quot; instruction. This
allows local modifications to be made to existing compose
files without including all of the content directly. For
example, the system&rsquo;s iso8859-1 compose file can be
included with a line like this:</p>

<p style="margin-left:17%;"><b>include
&quot;</b><i>%S/iso8859-1/Compose</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">There are
several substitutions that can be made in the file name of
the include instruction:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="83%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><i>%H</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">expands to the user&rsquo;s home
directory (the <b>$HOME</b> environment variable)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><i>%L</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>expands to the name of the locale specific Compose file
(i.e.,
&quot;<i>/usr/share/X11/locale/&lt;localename&gt;/Compose</i>&quot;)</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><i>%S</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>expands to the name of the system directory for Compose
files (i.e.,
&quot;<i>/usr/share/X11/locale</i>&quot;)</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">For example,
you can include in your compose file the default Compose
file by using:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>include
&quot;%L&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">and then rewrite only the few
rules that you need to change. New compose rules can be
added, and previous ones replaced.</p>

<h2 id="heading3">FILE FORMAT
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Compose files
are plain text files, with a separate line for each compose
sequence. Comments begin with <b>#</b> characters. Each
compose sequence specifies one or more events and a
resulting input sequence, with an optional comment at the
end of the line:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;"><i>EVENT</i> [<i>EVENT</i>...]
<b>:</b> <i>RESULT</i> [<b>#</b> <i>COMMENT</i>]</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Each event
consists of a specified input keysym, and optional modifier
states:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">[<i>MODIFIER_LIST</i>]
<b>&lt;</b><i>keysym</i><b>&gt;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Each modifier
consists of a specified modifier and a state:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">(<b>!</b> <i>MODIFIER</i> ) |
<b>None</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">Modifiers may be preceded by a
&quot;<b>~</b>&quot; character to indicate that the modifier
must not be present.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The result
specifies a string, keysym, or both, that the X client
receives as input when the sequence of events is input:</p>


<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;</b><i>STRING</i><b>&quot;</b>
| <i>keysym</i> | <b>&quot;</b><i>STRING</i><b>&quot;</b>
<i>keysym</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Keysyms are
specified without the <b>XK_</b> prefix.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Strings may be
direct text encoded in the locale for which the compose file
is to be used, or an escaped octal or hexadecimal character
code. Octal codes are specified as <b>&quot;\123&quot;</b>
and hexadecimal codes as <b>&quot;\0x123a&quot;</b>. It is
not necessary to specify in the right part of a rule a
locale encoded string in addition to the keysym name. If the
string is omitted, Xlib figures it out from the keysym
according to the current locale. I.e., if a rule looks
like:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&lt;dead_grave&gt; &lt;A&gt;
: &quot;\300&quot; Agrave</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">the result of the composition
is always the letter with the &quot;\300&quot; code. But if
the rule is:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&lt;dead_grave&gt; &lt;A&gt;
: Agrave</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">the result depends on how
Agrave is mapped in the current locale.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">ENVIRONMENT
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>XCOMPOSEFILE</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">File to use for compose
sequences.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>XCOMPOSECACHE</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Directory to use for caching
compiled compose files.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">FILES
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>$HOME/.XCompose</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">User default compose file if
XCOMPOSEFILE is not set.</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><i>/usr/share/X11/locale/compose.dir</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">File listing the compose file
path to use for each locale.</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><i>/usr/share/X11/locale/&lt;localemapping&gt;/Compose</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">System default compose file for
the locale, mapped via compose.dir.</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><i>/var/cache/libx11/compose/</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">System-wide cache directory for
compiled compose files.</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><i>$HOME/.compose-cache/</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Per-user cache directory for
compiled compose files.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man3/XLookupString.3.xhtml"><em>XLookupString</em>(3)</a>,
<a href="../man3/XmbLookupString.3.xhtml"><em>XmbLookupString</em>(3)</a>, <a href="../man3/XwcLookupString.3.xhtml"><em>XwcLookupString</em>(3)</a>,
<a href="../man3/Xutf8LookupString.3.xhtml"><em>Xutf8LookupString</em>(3)</a>, <a href="../man1/mkcomposecache.1.xhtml"><em>mkcomposecache</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man7/locale.7.xhtml"><em>locale</em>(7)</a>. <i><br/>
<a href="../../libX11/libX11/libX11.html">Xlib &minus; C Language X Interface</a></i></p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
