<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:38 2012 -->
<title>RADEON</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>RADEON</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">TEXTURED VIDEO ATTRIBUTES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">radeon &minus;
ATI RADEON video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;radeon&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>radeon</b>
is an Xorg driver for ATI RADEON-based video cards with the
following features:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="86%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>&bull;</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Full support for 8-, 15-, 16- and 24-bit pixel
depths;</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>&bull;</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>RandR 1.2 and RandR 1.3 support;</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>&bull;</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>TV-out support (only on RV/RS1xx, RV/RS2xx, R/RV/RS3xx.
Experimental support on R/RV5xx, R/RV6xx, and R/RV7xx
through the <b>ATOMTvOut</b> option); TV-out is not
supported on cards that use the Rage Theatre chip for TV-out
(R100, R200).</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>&bull;</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Full EXA 2D acceleration;</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>&bull;</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Full XAA 2D acceleration (only on R/RV/RS1xx,
R/RV/RS2xx, R/RV/RS3xx, R/RV/RS4xx, R/RV5xx, RS6xx. XAA
Render acceleration supported only on R/RV100, R/RV/RS2xx
and RS3xx);</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>&bull;</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Textured XVideo acceleration including anti-tearing
support (Bicubic filtering only available on R/RV3xx,
R/RV/RS4xx, R/RV5xx, and RS6xx/RS740);</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>&bull;</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Overlay XVideo acceleration (only on R/RV/RS1xx,
R/RV/RS2xx, R/RV/RS3xx, R/RV/RS4xx);</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>&bull;</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>3D acceleration;</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>radeon</b> driver supports PCI, AGP, and PCIE video cards
based on the following ATI chips (note: list is
non-exhaustive):</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="17%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="71%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>R100</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Radeon 7200</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV100</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 7000(VE), M6, RN50/ES1000</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RS100</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon IGP320(M)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV200</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 7500, M7, FireGL 7800</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RS200</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon IGP330(M)/IGP340(M)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RS250</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon Mobility 7000 IGP</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>R200</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 8500, 9100, FireGL 8800/8700</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV250</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 9000PRO/9000, M9</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV280</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 9200PRO/9200/9200SE/9250, M9+</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RS300</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 9100 IGP</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RS350</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 9200 IGP</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RS400/RS480</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon XPRESS 200(M)/1100 IGP</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>R300</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 9700PRO/9700/9500PRO/9500/9600TX, FireGL
X1/Z1</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>R350</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 9800PRO/9800SE/9800, FireGL X2</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>R360</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 9800XT</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV350</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 9600PRO/9600SE/9600/9550, M10/M11, FireGL T2</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV360</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon 9600XT</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV370</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon X300, M22</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV380</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon X600, M24</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV410</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon X700, M26 PCIE</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>R420</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon X800 AGP</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>R423/R430</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon X800, M28 PCIE</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>R480/R481</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon X850 PCIE/AGP</p></td></tr>
</table>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>RV505/RV515/RV516/RV550</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:29%;">Radeon
X1300/X1400/X1500/X1550/X2300</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="17%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="37%"></col>
<col width="34%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>R520</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon X1800</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV530/RV560</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon X1600/X1650/X1700</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV570/R580</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon X1900/X1950</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>RS600/RS690/RS740</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:29%;">Radeon X1200/X1250/X2100</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="17%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="71%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>R600</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 2900</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV610/RV630</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 2400/2600/2700/4200/4225/4250</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV620/RV635</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 3410/3430/3450/3470/3650/3670</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV670</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 3690/3850/3870</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RS780/RS880</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 3100/3200/3300/4100/4200/4250/4290</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RV710/RV730</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD
4330/4350/4550/4650/4670/5145/5165/530v/545v/560v/565v</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>RV740/RV770/RV790</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:29%;">Radeon HD
4770/4730/4830/4850/4860/4870/4890</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="15%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="71%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>CEDAR</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 5430/5450/6330/6350/6370</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>REDWOOD</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD
5550/5570/5650/5670/5730/5750/5770/6530/6550/6570</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>JUNIPER</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD
5750/5770/5830/5850/5870/6750/6770/6830/6850/6870</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>CYPRESS</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 5830/5850/5870</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>HEMLOCK</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 5970</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>PALM</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 6310/6250</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>SUMO/SUMO2</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 6370/6380/6410/6480/6520/6530/6550/6620</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>BARTS</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 6790/6850/6870/6950/6970/6990</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>TURKS</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 6570/6630/6650/6670/6730/6750/6770</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>CAICOS</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 6430/6450/6470/6490</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>CAYMAN</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Radeon HD 6950/6970/6990</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>ARUBA</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%;">Please refer to <a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>
for general configuration details. This section only covers
configuration details specific to this driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
auto&minus;detects all device information necessary to
initialize the card. However, if you have problems with
auto&minus;detection, you can specify for UMS (Userspace
Modesetting):</p>

<p style="margin-left:17%; margin-top: 1em">VideoRam
&minus; in kilobytes <br/>
MemBase &minus; physical address of the linear framebuffer
<br/>
IOBase &minus; physical address of the MMIO registers <br/>
ChipID &minus; PCI DEVICE ID</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">In addition,
the following driver <b>Options</b> are supported for both
<b>UMS</b> (Userspace Modesetting) and <b>KMS</b> (Kernel
Modesetting): <b><br/>
Option &quot;SWcursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Selects software cursor. The
default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enables or disables all
hardware acceleration. <br/>
The default is to <b>enable</b> hardware acceleration.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ZaphodHeads&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Specify the RandR output(s) to
use with zaphod mode for a particular driver instance. If
you use this option you must use this option for all
instances of the driver. <br/>
For example: <b>Option &quot;ZaphodHeads&quot;
&quot;LVDS,VGA-0&quot;</b> will assign xrandr outputs LVDS
and VGA-0 to this instance of the driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;EXAVSync&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option attempts to avoid
tearing by stalling the engine until the display controller
has passed the destination region. It reduces tearing at the
cost of performance and has been known to cause instability
on some chips. The default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported for <b>KMS</b> (Kernel
Modesetting): <b><br/>
Option &quot;ColorTiling&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">The framebuffer can be
addressed either in linear or tiled mode. Tiled mode can
provide significant performance benefits with 3D
applications. Tiling will be disabled if the drm module is
too old or if the current display configuration does not
support it. On R600+ this enables 1D tiling mode. <br/>
The default value is <b>on</b> for R/RV3XX, R/RV4XX,
R/RV5XX, RS6XX, RS740, R/RV6XX, R/RV7XX, RS780, RS880,
EVERGREEN, and CAYMAN and <b>off</b> for R/RV/RS1XX,
R/RV/RS2XX, and RS3XX.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ColorTiling2D&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">The framebuffer can be
addressed either in linear, 1D, or 2D tiled modes. 2D tiled
mode can provide significant performance benefits over 1D
tiling with 3D applications. Tiling will be disabled if the
drm module is too old or if the current display
configuration does not support it. KMS ColorTiling2D is only
supported on R600 and newer chips. <br/>
The default value is <b>off</b> for R/RV6XX, R/RV7XX, RS780,
RS880, EVERGREEN, and CAYMAN.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;EXAPixmaps&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Under KMS, to avoid thrashing
pixmaps in/out of VRAM on low memory cards, we use a
heuristic based on VRAM amount to determine whether to allow
EXA to use VRAM for non-essential pixmaps. This option
allows us to override the heuristic. The default is
<b>on</b> with &gt; 32MB VRAM, off with &lt; 32MB.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;SwapbuffersWait&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option controls the
behavior of glXSwapBuffers and glXCopySubBufferMESA calls by
GL applications. If enabled, the calls will avoid tearing by
making sure the display scanline is outside of the area to
be copied before the copy occurs. If disabled, no scanline
synchronization is performed, meaning tearing will likely
occur. Note that when enabled, this option can adversely
affect the framerate of applications that render frames at
less than refresh rate.</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">The default
value is <b>on.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;EnablePageFlip&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable DRI2 page flipping. The
default is <b>on.</b> Pageflipping is supported on all
radeon hardware.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported for <b>UMS</b>
(Userspace Modesetting): <b><br/>
Option &quot;Dac6Bit&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enables or disables the use of
6 bits per color component when in 8 bpp mode (emulates VGA
mode). By default, all 8 bits per color component are used.
<br/>
The default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;VideoKey&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This overrides the default
pixel value for the YUV video overlay key. <br/>
The default value is <b>0x1E.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ScalerWidth&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This sets the overlay scaler
buffer width. Accepted values range from 1024 to 2048,
divisible by 64. Values other than 1536 and 1920 may not
make sense. This should be set automatically, but no one
knows what the limit is for which chip. If you think quality
is not optimal when playing back HD video (with horizontal
resolution larger than this setting), increase this value.
If you get an empty area at the right (usually pink),
decrease it. Note that this only affects the
&quot;true&quot; overlay via Xv, and won&rsquo;t affect
things like textured video. <br/>
The default value is either 1536 (for most chips) or
1920.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;AGPMode&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set AGP data transfer rate.
(used only when DRI is enabled) <br/>
1 &minus;&minus; 1x (before AGP v3 only) <br/>
2 &minus;&minus; 2x (before AGP v3 only) <br/>
4 &minus;&minus; 4x <br/>
8 &minus;&minus; 8x (AGP v3 only) <br/>
others &minus;&minus; invalid <br/>
The default is to <b>leave it unchanged.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;AGPFastWrite&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable AGP fast writes.
Enabling this is frequently the cause of instability. Used
only when the DRI is enabled. If you enable this option you
will get *NO* support from developers. <br/>
The default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;BusType&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Used to replace previous
ForcePCIMode option. Should only be used when driver&rsquo;s
bus detection is incorrect or you want to force an AGP card
to PCI mode. You should NEVER force a PCI card to AGP bus.
<br/>
PCI &minus;&minus; PCI bus <br/>
AGP &minus;&minus; AGP bus <br/>
PCIE &minus;&minus; PCI Express bus <br/>
(used only when DRI is enabled) <br/>
The default is <b>auto detect.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;DisplayPriority&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Used to prevent flickering or
tearing problem caused by display buffer underflow. <br/>
AUTO &minus;&minus; Driver calculated (default). <br/>
BIOS &minus;&minus; Remain unchanged from BIOS setting.
<br/>
Use this if the calculation is not correct <br/>
for your card. <br/>
HIGH &minus;&minus; Force to the highest priority. <br/>
Use this if you have problem with above options. <br/>
This may affect performance slightly. <br/>
The default value is <b>AUTO.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ColorTiling&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">The framebuffer can be
addressed either in linear or tiled mode. Tiled mode can
provide significant performance benefits with 3D
applications. For 2D it shouldn&rsquo;t matter much. Tiling
will be disabled if the virtual x resolution exceeds 2048
(3968 for R300 and above), or if DRI is enabled and the drm
module is too old. <br/>
If this option is enabled, a new DRI driver is required for
direct rendering. <br/>
Color tiling will be automatically disabled in interlaced or
doublescan screen modes. <br/>
The default value is <b>on.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;IgnoreEDID&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Do not use EDID data for mode
validation. DDC is still used for monitor detection. This is
different from NoDDC option. <br/>
The default value is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;CustomEDID&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Forces the X driver to use the
EDID data specified in a file rather than the
display&rsquo;s EDID. Also overrides DDC monitor detection.
<br/>
You may specify a semicolon-separated list of output name
and filename pairs with an optional flag,
&quot;digital&quot; or &quot;analog&quot;, to override the
digital bit in the EDID which is used by the driver to
determine whether to use the analog or digital encoder
associated with a DVI-I port. The output name is the RandR
output name, e.g., &quot;VGA-0&quot; or &quot;DVI-0&quot;;
consult the Xorg log for the supported output names of any
given system. <br/>
The file must contain a raw 128-byte EDID block, as captured
by <b>get-edid.</b> <br/>
For example: <b>Option &quot;CustomEDID&quot;
&quot;VGA-0:/tmp/edid1.bin;
DVI-0:/tmp/edid2.bin:digital&quot;</b> will assign the EDID
from the file /tmp/edid1.bin to the output device VGA-0, and
the EDID from the file /tmp/edid2.bin to the output device
DVI-0 and force the DVI port to use the digital encoder.
<br/>
Note that an output name must always be specified, even if
only one EDID is specified. <b><br/>
Caution:</b> Specifying an EDID that doesn&rsquo;t exactly
match your display may damage your hardware, as it allows
the driver to specify timings beyond the capabilities of
your display. Use with care.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;PanelSize&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Should only be used when driver
cannot detect the correct panel size. Apply to both desktop
(TMDS) and laptop (LVDS) digital panels. When a valid panel
size is specified, the timings collected from DDC and BIOS
will not be used. If you have a panel with timings different
from that of a standard VESA mode, you have to provide this
information through the Modeline. <br/>
For example, Option &quot;PanelSize&quot;
&quot;1400x1050&quot; <br/>
The default value is <b>none.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;EnablePageFlip&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable page flipping for 3D
acceleration. This will increase performance but not work
correctly in some rare cases, hence the default is
<b>off.</b> It is currently only supported on R/RV/RS4xx and
older hardware.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ForceMinDotClock&quot;
&quot;</b><i>frequency</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Override minimum dot clock.
Some Radeon BIOSes report a minimum dot clock unsuitable
(too high) for use with television sets even when they
actually can produce lower dot clocks. If this is the case
you can override the value here. <b>Note that using this
option may damage your hardware.</b> You have been warned.
The <b>frequency</b> parameter may be specified as a float
value with standard suffixes like &quot;k&quot;,
&quot;kHz&quot;, &quot;M&quot;, &quot;MHz&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;RenderAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enables or disables hardware
Render acceleration. It is supported on all Radeon cards
when using EXA acceleration and on Radeon R/RV/RS1xx,
R/RV/RS2xx and RS3xx when using XAA. The default is to
<b>enable</b> Render acceleration.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;AccelMethod&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Chooses between available
acceleration architectures. Valid options are <b>XAA</b> and
<b>EXA.</b> XAA is the traditional acceleration architecture
and support for it is very stable. EXA is a newer
acceleration architecture with better performance for the
Render and Composite extensions. The default is
<b>EXA.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;AccelDFS&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Use or don&rsquo;t use
accelerated EXA DownloadFromScreen hook when possible (only
when Direct Rendering is enabled, e.g.). Default: <b>off</b>
with AGP due to issues with GPU-&gt;host transfers with some
AGP bridges, <b>on</b> otherwise.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;FBTexPercent&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Amount of video RAM to reserve
for OpenGL textures, in percent. With EXA, the remainder of
video RAM is reserved for EXA offscreen management.
Specifying 0 results in all offscreen video RAM being
reserved for EXA and only GART memory being available for
OpenGL textures. This may improve EXA performance, but
beware that it may cause problems with OpenGL drivers from
Mesa versions older than 6.4. With XAA, specifying lower
percentage than what gets reserved without this option has
no effect, but the driver tries to increase the video RAM
reserved for textures to the amount specified roughly.
Default: <b>50.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;DepthBits&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Precision in bits per pixel of
the shared depth buffer used for 3D acceleration. Valid
values are 16 and 24. When this is 24, there will also be a
hardware accelerated stencil buffer, but the combined
depth/stencil buffer will take up twice as much video RAM as
when it&rsquo;s 16. Default: <b>The same as the screen
depth.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;DMAForXv&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Try or don&rsquo;t try to use
DMA for Xv image transfers. This will reduce CPU usage when
playing big videos like DVDs, but may cause instabilities.
Default: <b>on.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;SubPixelOrder&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Force subpixel order to
specified order. Subpixel order is used for subpixel
decimation on flat panels. <br/>
NONE &minus;&minus; No subpixel (CRT like displays) <br/>
RGB &minus;&minus; in horizontal RGB order (most flat
panels) <br/>
BGR &minus;&minus; in horizontal BGR order (some flat
panels)</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">This option is
intended to be used in following cases: <br/>
1. The default subpixel order is incorrect for your panel.
<br/>
2. Enable subpixel decimation on analog panels. <br/>
3. Adjust to one display type in dual-head clone mode setup.
<br/>
4. Get better performance with Render acceleration on
digital panels (use NONE setting). <br/>
The default is <b>NONE</b> for CRT, <b>RGB</b> for digital
panels</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ClockGating&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable dynamic clock gating.
This can help reduce heat and increase battery life by
reducing power usage. Some users report reduced 3D
performance with this enabled. The default is
<b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ForceLowPowerMode&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable a static low power mode.
This can help reduce heat and increase battery life by
reducing power usage at the expense of performance. The
default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;DynamicPM&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable dynamic power mode
switching. This can help reduce heat and increase battery
life by reducing power usage when the system is idle (DPMS
active). The default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;VGAAccess&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Tell the driver if it can do
legacy VGA IOs to the card. This is necessary for properly
resuming consoles when in VGA text mode, but shouldn&rsquo;t
be if the console is using radeonfb or some other graphic
mode driver. Some platforms like PowerPC have issues with
those, and they aren&rsquo;t necessary unless you have a
real text mode in console. The default is <b>off</b> on
PowerPC and SPARC and <b>on</b> on other architectures.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ReverseDDC&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">When BIOS connector information
isn&rsquo;t available, use this option to reverse the
mapping of the two main DDC ports. Use this if the X server
obviously detects the wrong display for each connector. This
is typically needed on the Radeon 9600 cards bundled with
Apple G5s. The default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;LVDSProbePLL&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">When BIOS panel information
isn&rsquo;t available (like on PowerBooks), it may still be
necessary to use the firmware-provided PLL values for the
panel or flickering will happen. This option will force
probing of the current value programmed in the chip when X
is launched in that case. This is only useful for LVDS
panels (laptop internal panels). The default is
<b>on.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TVDACLoadDetect&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable load detection on the TV
DAC. The TV DAC is used to drive both TV-out and analog
monitors. Load detection is often unreliable in the TV DAC
so it is disabled by default. The default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;DefaultTMDSPLL&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Use the default driver provided
TMDS PLL values rather than the ones provided by the BIOS.
This option has no effect on Mac cards. Enable this option
if you are having problems with a DVI monitor using the
internal TMDS controller. The default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;DefaultTVDACAdj&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Use the default driver provided
TVDAC Adj values rather than the ones provided by the BIOS.
This option has no effect on Mac cards. Enable this option
if you are having problems with a washed out display on the
secondary DAC. The default is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;DRI&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable DRI support. This option
allows you to enable to disable the DRI. The default is
<b>off</b> for RN50/ES1000 and <b>on</b> for others.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;DefaultConnectorTable&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable this option to skip the
BIOS connector table parsing and use the driver defaults for
each chip. The default is <b>off</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;MacModel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Used to specify Mac models for
connector tables and quirks. If you have a PowerBook or Mini
with DVI that does not work properly, try the alternate
options as Apple does not seem to provide a good way of
knowing whether they use internal or external TMDS for DVI.
Only valid on PowerPC. On Linux, the driver will attempt to
detect the MacModel automatically. <br/>
ibook &minus;&minus; ibooks <br/>
powerbook-external &minus;&minus; Powerbooks with external
DVI <br/>
powerbook-internal &minus;&minus; Powerbooks with integrated
DVI <br/>
powerbook-vga &minus;&minus; Powerbooks with VGA rather than
DVI <br/>
mini-external &minus;&minus; Mac Mini with external DVI
<br/>
mini-internal &minus;&minus; Mac Mini with integrated DVI
<br/>
imac-g5-isight &minus;&minus; iMac G5 iSight <br/>
emac &minus;&minus; eMac G4 <br/>
The default value is <b>undefined.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TVStandard&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Used to specify the default TV
standard if you want to use something other than the BIOS
default. Valid options are: <br/>
ntsc <br/>
pal <br/>
pal-m <br/>
pal-60 <br/>
ntsc-j <br/>
scart-pal <br/>
The default value is <b>undefined.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ForceTVOut&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable this option to force
TV-out to always be detected as attached. The default is
<b>off</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;IgnoreLidStatus&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable this option to ignore
lid status on laptops and always detect LVDS as attached.
The default is <b>on.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Int10&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option allows you to
disable INT10 initialization. Set this to False if you are
experiencing a hang when initializing a secondary card. The
default is <b>on.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;ATOMTvOut&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option enables
experimental TV-out support for R/RV5xx, R/RV6xx, and
R/RV7xx AtomBIOS chips. TV-out is experimental and may not
function on these chips as well as hoped for. The default is
<b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;R4xxATOM&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option enables modesetting
on R/RV4xx chips using AtomBIOS. The default is
<b>off.</b></p>

<h2 id="heading6">TEXTURED VIDEO ATTRIBUTES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
supports the following X11 Xv attributes for Textured Video.
You can use the &quot;xvattr&quot; tool to query/set those
attributes at runtime. <b><br/>
XV_VSYNC</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">XV_VSYNC is used to control
whether textured adapter synchronizes the screen update to
the monitor vertical refresh to eliminate tearing. It has
two values: &rsquo;off&rsquo;(0) and &rsquo;on&rsquo;(1).
The default is <b>&rsquo;on&rsquo;(1).</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>XV_CRTC</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">XV_CRTC is used to control
which display controller (crtc) the textured adapter
synchronizes the screen update with when XV_VSYNC is
enabled. The default, &rsquo;auto&rsquo;(-1), will sync to
the display controller that more of the video is on; when
this is ambiguous, the display controller associated with
the RandR primary output is preferred. This attribute is
useful for things like clone mode where the user can best
decide which display should be synced. The default is
<b>&rsquo;auto&rsquo;(-1).</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>XV_BICUBIC</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">XV_BICUBIC is used to control
whether textured adapter should apply a bicubic filter to
smooth the output. It has three values:
&rsquo;off&rsquo;(0), &rsquo;on&rsquo;(1) and
&rsquo;auto&rsquo;(2). &rsquo;off&rsquo; means never apply
the filter, &rsquo;on&rsquo; means always apply the filter
and &rsquo;auto&rsquo; means apply the filter only if the X
and Y sizes are scaled to more than double to avoid blurred
output. Bicubic filtering is not currently compatible with
other Xv attributes like hue, contrast, and brightness, and
must be disabled to use those attributes. The default is
<b>&rsquo;off&rsquo;(0).</b></p>

<h2 id="heading7">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="12%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="15%"></col>
<col width="68%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p>1.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Wiki page:</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>


<p style="margin-left:17%;">http://www.x.org/wiki/radeon</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="12%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="60%"></col>
<col width="23%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">2.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Overview about radeon
development code:</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>


<p style="margin-left:17%;">http://cgit.freedesktop.org/xorg/driver/xf86-video-ati/</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="12%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="20%"></col>
<col width="63%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">3.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Mailing list:</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>


<p style="margin-left:17%;">http://lists.x.org/mailman/listinfo/xorg-driver-ati</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="12%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="18%"></col>
<col width="65%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">4.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">IRC channel:</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:17%;">#radeon on irc.freenode.net</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="12%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="57%"></col>
<col width="26%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">5.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Query the bugtracker for radeon
bugs:</p> </td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>


<p style="margin-left:17%;">https://bugs.freedesktop.org/query.cgi?product=xorg&amp;component=Driver/Radeon</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="12%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="34%"></col>
<col width="49%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">6.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Submit bugs &amp; patches:</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>


<p style="margin-left:17%;">https://bugs.freedesktop.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=xorg&amp;component=Driver/Radeon</p>

<h2 id="heading8">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Authors
include: <br/>
Rickard E. (Rik) Faith <i>faith@precisioninsight.com</i>
<br/>
Kevin E. Martin <i>kem@freedesktop.org</i> <br/>
Alan Hourihane <i>alanh@fairlite.demon.co.uk</i> <br/>
Marc Aurele La France <i>tsi@xfree86.org</i> <br/>
Benjamin Herrenschmidt <i>benh@kernel.crashing.org</i> <br/>
Michel D&auml;nzer <i>michel@daenzer.net</i> <br/>
Alex Deucher <i>alexdeucher@gmail.com</i> <br/>
Bogdan D. <i>bogdand@users.sourceforge.net</i> <br/>
Eric Anholt <i>eric@anholt.net</i></p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
