<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:43 2012 -->
<title>TDFX</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>TDFX</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">FILES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">tdfx &minus;
3Dfx video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;tdfx&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>tdfx</b> is
an Xorg driver for 3Dfx video cards.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The <b>tdfx</b>
driver supports Voodoo Banshee, Voodoo3, Voodoo4 and Voodoo5
cards.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable acceleration.
Default: acceleration is enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;SWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable software
cursor. Default: software cursor is disable and a hardware
cursor is used for configurations where the hardware cursor
is available.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;DRI&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable DRI support.
By default, DRI is on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TexturedVideo&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This has XvImage support use
the texture engine rather than the video overlay.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;VideoKey&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This sets the default pixel
value for the YUV video overlay key. Default: undefined.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;UsePIO&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Force the use of Programmed IO
instead of Memory Mapped IO. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
additional <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;ShowCache&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable viewing
offscreen cache memory. A development debug option. Default:
off.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">FILES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">tdfx_drv.o</p>

<h2 id="heading7">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading8">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Authors
include: ...</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
