<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:31 2012 -->
<title>VMMOUSE</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>VMMOUSE</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">vmmouse &minus;
VMware Mouse input driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;InputDevice&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>idevname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;vmmouse&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>vmmouse</b>
is an XFree86 input driver for mice. The driver supports
most available mouse types and interfaces. USB mice are only
supported on some OSs, and the level of support for PS/2
mice depends on the OS.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>vmmouse</b> driver functions as a pointer input device,
and may be used as the X server&rsquo;s core pointer.
Multiple mice are supported by multiple instances of this
driver.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details and for
options that can be used with all input drivers. This
section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver will
automatically detect if the vmmouse device is present and if
it is not, it will load the regular <b>mouse</b> driver and
attempt to fall back to it. There are no <b>vmmouse</b>
specific options, but if you set <b><a href="../man4/mouse.4.xhtml"><em>mouse</em>(4)</a></b> options,
they will be passed on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">See the
<b><a href="../man4/mouse.4.xhtml"><em>mouse</em>(4)</a></b> man page for details on these options.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>, <a href="../man4/mouse.4.xhtml"><em>mouse</em>(4)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading6">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Copyright (c)
1999-2007 VMware, Inc.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
