<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:32 2012 -->
<title>VMWARE</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>VMWARE</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">MODESETTING, XINERAMA AND RANDR12</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">3D ACCELERATION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">vmware &minus;
VMware SVGA video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;vmware&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>vmware</b>
is an Xorg driver for VMware virtual video cards.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">MODESETTING, XINERAMA AND RANDR12
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If the driver
can connect to the &quot;vmwgfx&quot; kernel module on
linux, it will attempt to use kernel modesetting and will
then also use RandR12 for multiple output operation instead
of Xinerama. The X server log or the &quot;xrandr&quot;
application can be used to determine whether RandR12 or
Xinerama is actually used.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">3D ACCELERATION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If the driver
can connect to the &quot;vmwgfx&quot; kernel module on
linux, and the Virtual Machine is set up to use 3D
acceleration, the driver will try to use Gallium3D XA to
accelerate 3D operations. It will also by default enable
DRI, the Direct Rendering Infrastructure, primarily for
accelerated OpenGL. If 3D acceleration is available, the
driver will in addition provide an additional XVideo adaptor
for textured video. Gallium3D XA,ibxatracker.so&quot; and
the accelerated OpenGL driver, &quot;vmwgfx_dri.so&quot; is
provided by the mesa distribution.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
auto-detects the version of any virtual VMware SVGA
adapter.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;HWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable the HW
cursor. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Xinerama&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable Xinerama
support. Default: xinerama is enabled if the hardware
supports it.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;StaticXinerama&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Provide a static xinerama
geometry that will be active at server startup and will not
be overridden at runtime. The format is
&quot;Width1xHeight1+Xoffset1+Yoffset1;Width2xHeight2+Xoffset2+Yoffset2&quot;
and so on. Negative offsets are not supported. If the driver
is using RandR12, this option should be used to place and
enable outputs at driver startup time or else when VMware
tools is not used for that purpose. Also please see option
&quot;GuiLayout&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;GuiLayout&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">A synonym to option
&quot;StaticXinerama&quot;, since the latter name is
somewhat misleading when RandR12 is favoured before
Xinerarma.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;AddDefaultMode&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Provide a default mode with a
resolution identical to the resolution of the guest before
the X server was started. The X server will thus try to
start without changing resolution. Default: on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;RenderAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Try to accelerate render
operations if the operations are reading from previously
accelerated contents (3D or video). This option is needed
for 3D support. Default: on if 3D acceleration is supported.
Otherwise off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;DRI&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable the Direct Rendering
Infrastructure. Default: on if 3D acceleration is supported
and &quot;RenderAccel&quot; is enabled. Otherwise off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;DirectPresents&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Speed up OpenGL swapbuffers by
skipping a copy operation. This provides some OpenGL
swapbuffer speedups, but may cause performance degradation
and rendering errors when 3D contents is read back for
mixing with software rendered contents. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;HwPresents&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This is a developer convenience
option and should not be used by distros or normal users.
When enabled, it copies software rendered contents to a 3D
surface before presenting it, so that the visible screen is
always present on a 3D surface. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;RenderCheck&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This is a developer convenience
option and should not be used by distros or normal users.
When enabled, it tries to use 3D acceleration for all
XRender operations where 3D acceleration is supported,
resulting in a considerable slowdown due to the increased
number of readbacks of accelerated contents from host to
guest. This option is used to verify that the accelerated
Xrender paths works correctly with the
&quot;rendercheck&quot; application. Default: off.</p>

<h2 id="heading7">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>, <a href="../man1/xrandr.1.xhtml"><em>xrandr</em>(1)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading8">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Copyright (c)
1999-2007 VMware, Inc.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
