<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:40 2012 -->
<title>VOODOO</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>VOODOO</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">BUGS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">voodoo &minus;
Voodoo video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;voodoo&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>voodoo</b>
is an Xorg driver for Voodoo 1 and Voodoo 2 series video
adapters. On the Voodoo 1 the driver uses a shadow buffer in
system memory as the video adapter has only 3D acceleration.
Selected portions of the shadow framebuffer are copied out
to the Voodoo board at the right time. Because of this, the
speed of the driver is very dependent on the CPU. Processors
nowadays are actually rather fast at moving data so we get
very good speed anyway as the shadow framebuffer is in
cached RAM.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The Voodoo2 has
16bpp acceleration and the driver provides accelerated
versions of most operations except angled lines and
stipples. Accelerated alpha blending with the Render
extension is also supported as is DGA.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This driver
supports 16bpp modes currently. The video hardware supports
image conversion from 24bpp to 16bpp but the hardware is
16bpp only.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The Voodoo 1
series cards can go up to 800x600 resolution while the
Voodoo 2 can reach 1024x768 providing it has at least 2Mb of
frame buffer memory. 1024x768 2D mode does not require two
cards configured in scan-line interleave mode (SLI).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Multihead and
Xinerama configurations are supported. SLI configurations
will be treated as multiple video cards.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Limited support
for DPMS screen saving is available. The &quot;standby&quot;
and &quot;suspend&quot; modes are just painting the screen
black. The &quot;off&quot; mode turns the Voodoo board off
and thus works correctly.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This driver
does not support a virtual screen size different from the
display size. This is a hardware limitation. 3D rendering is
also not supported.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;ShadowFB&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enables a shadow buffer in main
memory. This turns off acceleration but for otherwise
unaccelerated operations can improve performance materially.
Default: off for voodoo2, on for voodoo1.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disables acceleration if set.
Unless debugging this option should only be set if ShadowFB
is enabled. Default: off for voodoo2, on for voodoo1.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">BUGS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
interacts badly with the sstfb frame buffer driver as there
is insufficient information to restore the chip to its
previous state.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Authors: Alan
Cox, Ghozlane Toumi, Henrik Harmsen.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
