<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:41 2012 -->
<title>EXA</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>EXA</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">exa &minus; new
2D acceleration architecture for X.Org</p>

<h2 id="heading2">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>EXA</b>
provides a simple API for video drivers to implement for 2D
acceleration. It is a module loaded by drivers, and is not
intended to be loaded on its own. See your driver&rsquo;s
manual page for how to enable <b>EXA</b>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The <b>EXA</b>
architecture is designed to make accelerating the Render
extension simple and efficient, and results in various
performance tradeoffs compared to XAA. Some xorg.conf
options are available for debugging performance issues or
driver rendering problems. They are not intended for general
use. <b><br/>
Option &quot;EXANoComposite&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disables acceleration of the
Composite operation, which is at the heart of the Render
extension. Not related to the Composite extension. Default:
No.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;EXANoUploadToScreen&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disables acceleration of
uploading pixmap data to the framebuffer. Default: No.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;EXANoDownloadFromScreen&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disables acceleration of
downloading of pixmap data from the framebuffer.
<b>NOTE:</b> Not usable with drivers which rely on
DownloadFromScreen succeeding. Default: No.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;MigrationHeuristic&quot;
&quot;</b><i>anystr</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Chooses an alternate pixmap
migration heuristic, for debugging purposes. The default is
intended to be the best performing one for general use,
though others may help with specific use cases. Available
options include &quot;always&quot;, &quot;greedy&quot;, and
&quot;smart&quot;. Default: always.</p>

<h2 id="heading3">SEE ALSO
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<b><a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>.</b></p>

<h2 id="heading4">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Authors
include: Keith Packard, Eric Anholt, Zack Rusin, and Michel
D&auml;nzer</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
