<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:40 2012 -->
<title>joystick</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>joystick</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">DEFAULT CONFIGURATION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">ACCELERATED AXIS CONFIGURATION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">ABSOLUTE AXIS CONFIGURATION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading9">GENERATING KEY EVENTS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading10">XI2 Events</a><br/>
<a href="#heading11">NOTES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading12">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading13">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">joystick
&minus; Joystick input driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Snipped for
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.d.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf.d</em>(5)</a>:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;InputClass&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>joystick-all</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;</b><i>joystick</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MatchIsJoystick&quot;
&quot;</b><i>on</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MatchDevicePath
&quot;</b><i>/dev/input/event*</i><b>&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b>
<br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>joystick</b>
is an Xorg input driver for Joysticks. There are 3 backends
available that are used in the following order, if support
was found:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>-
Linux&rsquo;s evdev interface <br/>
- Linux&rsquo;s joystick interface <br/>
- BSD&rsquo;s usbhid interface</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
reports cursor movement as well as raw axis values through
valuators.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">In general,
every by the kernel supported joystick should be supported
through the <b>joystick</b> driver. The driver assumes that
the joystick is calibrated and reports axis values between
<i>-32768</i> and <i>32768</i>. See the Linux kernel
documentation for a complete list of supported devices.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
Driver <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;Device&quot; &quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;
<br/>
Option &quot;Path&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Specifies the device through
which the joystick can be accessed. This option is mandatory
and there is no default setting.</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">For Linux,
joysticks are mostly accessible as <i>/dev/input/jsX</i> or
<i>/dev/input/eventX</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">In *BSD,
joysticks are usually recognized as <i>/dev/uhidX</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;AutoRepeat&quot; &quot;</b><i>delay
rate</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Sets the auto repeat behaviour
for key events. <i>delay</i> is the time in milliseconds
before a key starts repeating. <i>rate</i> is the number of
times a key repeats per second. Default: Xorg default</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;DebugLevel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">If compiled with debugging
information, controls the verbosity of the driver. The
higher the DebugLevel, the more output is produced. Default:
0</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;MapButton&lt;number&gt;&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Sets the mapping of the
joystick button to the desired action. Counting of buttons
starts with <i>1</i>, Possible options are:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="22%"></col>
<col width="6%"></col>
<col width="4%" class="center"></col>
<col width="60%"></col>
<col width="8%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>none</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This joystick button won&rsquo;t do anything.</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>


<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;button=</b><i>&lt;number&gt;</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">The joystick button will
generate a click with the specified button (starting with
1).</p>


<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;axis=</b><i>[&lt;factor&gt;]&lt;axis&gt;</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">Where <i>&lt;axis&gt;</i> is
one of: <b>x, y, zx, zy</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%; margin-top: 1em">and
<i>&lt;factor&gt;</i> is an optional amplifier of the axis,
like <b>-, +, -5, 0.4, 1.3, ...</b> Use positive and
negative values to control the direction. Default: 1.0</p>


<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;amplify=</b><i>&lt;factor&gt;</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">Amplifies the movement of all
axes by the given factor when pressed. Different factors can
be combined.</p>


<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;key=</b><i>&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;]]]</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">When button is pressed, a
series of keydown events with the specified scancode is
generated. When the button is released, keyup events in the
opposite order are generated. You can specify up to 4
scancodes per button.</p>

<p style="margin-left:32%; margin-top: 1em">See special
section about key events below.</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;disable-mouse&quot;
<br/>
&quot;disable-keys&quot; <br/>
&quot;disable-all&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">Disables either the generation
of mouse events, key events or the generation of all X
events by the driver. Press button again to allow the driver
to generate events again.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;MapAxis&lt;number&gt;&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Sets the mapping of the axis to
the desired action. Counting of axes starts with <i>1</i>,
the parameter may contain: <b><br/>
&quot;mode=</b><i>&lt;string&gt;</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">Where <i>&lt;string&gt;</i> can
be one of:</p>

<p style="margin-left:32%; margin-top: 1em"><b>none,
relative, accelerated, absolute</b></p>


<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;valuator&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">Send extra valuator events for
this axis. The valuators will be numbered ascending,
starting with 2 (valuator 0 and 1 are reserved for pointer
movement). The range of the valuators is always
<i>-32767</i> to <i>32768</i>. Neither <b>mode</b> nor
<b>axis</b> needs to be set to generate extra valuator
events. The axis will be labelled according to it&rsquo;s
physical axis number, beginning with <i>1</i> , i.e.
<i>&quot;Axis 1&quot;</i> for the first axis (being the 3rd
valuator). Default: not set.</p>


<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;axis=</b><i>[&lt;factor&gt;]&lt;axis&gt;</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">Where <i>&lt;axis&gt;</i> is
one of: <b>x, y, zx, zy, key (see keylow/keyhigh)</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%; margin-top: 1em">and
<i>&lt;factor&gt;</i> is an optional amplifier of the axis,
like <b>-, +, -5, 0.4, 1.3, ...</b> Negative values will
invert the movement. Default: 1.0</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;keylow=</b>
<i>&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;]]]</i>
<b><br/>

&quot;keyhigh=</b><i>&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;]]]</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">When the axis is moved out of
the deadzone, a series of keydown events according to the
direction of the movement is generated. When the axis is
released, keyup events will be generated. You can specify up
to 4 scancodes for each direction.</p>

<p style="margin-left:32%; margin-top: 1em"><b>keylow</b>
defines the keys to be generated when the axis is moved in
negative direction (ie. left or up), <b>keyhigh</b> defines
the keys to be generated when the axis is moved in positive
direction (ie. right or down).</p>

<p style="margin-left:32%; margin-top: 1em">If <b>mode</b>
is set to <i>relative</i>: The driver will emulate
autorepeat according to the current value of the axis. A
keydown and subsequent keyup event will be generated in
short time intervals. To modify that interval and the
autorepeat speed, supply the
<b>&quot;axis=</b><i>[&lt;factor&gt;]KEY</i><b>&quot;</b>
parameter.</p>

<p style="margin-left:32%; margin-top: 1em">If <b>mode</b>
is set to <i>accelerated</i>: Keydown and keyup events will
be generated repeatedly. The time between a keydown and a
keyup event corresponds to the deflection of the axis. If
the axis is deflected by 30%, the key will be considered to
be down 300ms out of 1 second. The exact intervals may vary
and can be adjusted with the <i>amplify</i> parameter. If
the axis is deflected by 100%, there will only be one
keydown event, so the key is considered down all the time.
The keys will be autorepeated according to the Xorg keyboard
settings.</p>

<p style="margin-left:32%; margin-top: 1em">See special
section about key events below.</p>


<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>&quot;deadzone=</b><i>&lt;number&gt;</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:32%;">Sets the unresponsive range of
the axis to <i>&lt;number&gt;</i>. This can be between
<i>0</i> and <i>30000</i>. Default: 5000</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;StartKeysEnabled&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set to <i>False</i> to disable
key event generation after startup. You can toggle key event
generation with the <i>disable-keys</i> button mapping.
Default: enabled</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;StartMouseEnabled&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set to <i>False</i> to disable
mouse event generation after startup. You can toggle mouse
event generation with the <i>disable-mouse</i> button
mapping. Default: enabled</p>

<h2 id="heading6">DEFAULT CONFIGURATION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The default
configuration is as follows:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Option
&quot;DebugLevel&quot; &quot;</b><i>0</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;StartKeysEnabled&quot;
&quot;</b><i>True</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;StartMouseEnabled&quot;
&quot;</b><i>True</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton1&quot;
&quot;</b><i>button=1</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton2&quot;
&quot;</b><i>button=2</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton3&quot;
&quot;</b><i>button=3</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton4&quot; &quot;</b><i>none</i><b>&quot;
&nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis1&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=relative
axis=+1x deadzone=5000</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis2&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=relative
axis=+1y deadzone=5000</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis3&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=relative
axis=+1zx deadzone=5000</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis4&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=relative
axis=+1zy deadzone=5000</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis5&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=accelerated
axis=+1x deadzone=5000</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis6&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=accelerated
axis=+1y deadzone=5000</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis7&quot;
&quot;</b><i>mode=none</i><b>&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
...</p>

<h2 id="heading7">ACCELERATED AXIS CONFIGURATION
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Accelerated</b>
mode should be selected, if the axis is a <i>pad</i>, which
reports only three states: negative, center, positive. It
will produce a smooth acceleration of the movement when the
axis is deflected. The speed will be affected by the factor
of the axis, but not the acceleration speed.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This example
will set up the axis as scrolling vertically inverted, which
half of the speed: <b><br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis1&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=accelerated
axis=-0.5zy</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This example
maps four buttons to the four half axes, so you can use them
like a pad. The movement will get half the normal speed:
<b><br/>
Option &quot;MapButton1&quot;
&quot;</b><i>axis=+0.5x</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton2&quot;
&quot;</b><i>axis=-0.5x</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton3&quot;
&quot;</b><i>axis=+0.5y</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton4&quot;
&quot;</b><i>axis=-0.5y</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<h2 id="heading8">ABSOLUTE AXIS CONFIGURATION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">With the
<b>absolute</b> axis mode, the position of the cursor will
be fixed to the position, according to the deflection of the
axis. This fixed position is calculated around the previous
position of the cursor. You can specify the range in pixels,
the cursor can move. The default range is the <i>width</i>
of the screen, when mapped to the x-axis and the
<i>height</i> of the screen, when mapped to the y-axis. This
mode can be combines with the other modes without
problems.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">In this example
the first axis gets a range from left to the right of the
screen. The second axis gets a total range of 200 pixels,
100 to the top and 100 to the bottom: <b><br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis1&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=absolute
axis=x</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis2&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=absolute
axis=200y</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<h2 id="heading9">GENERATING KEY EVENTS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Providing a
&quot;key=&lt;scancode&gt;[,&lt;scancode&gt;[...]]&quot;
option will generate X Events with the specified scancodes
when the joystick button is pressed or the axis changed
it&rsquo;s position. When the button/axis is released, the
keys are released in the reverse order.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">To lookup
keycodes for KeySyms, you can use <b>xmodmap -pk</b>. You
can use unused keycodes and map them to a KeySym of your
choice using <a href="../man1/xmodmap.1.xhtml"><em>xmodmap</em>(1)</a>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">You can specify
up to 4 scancodes per joystick button/axis, which is useful
to use modificators. Make sure you use modificators that are
necessary to get a certain keysym.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Examples:
<b><br/>
Option &quot;MapButton1&quot;
&quot;</b><i>key=64,23</i><b>&quot;</b> <br/>
will generate <i>Alt_L+Tab</i> when the button is
pressed.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Option
&quot;MapButton1&quot;
&quot;</b><i>key=50,40</i><b>&quot;</b> <br/>
will generate a Shift_L+d which will be an uppercase
<i>d</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Option
&quot;MapButton1&quot; &quot;</b><i>key=65</i><b>&quot;</b>
<br/>
is for the <i>space</i> key.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Option
&quot;MapAxis1&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=relative keylow=113
keyhigh=114 axis=0.5key</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis2&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=relative
keylow=111 keyhigh=116</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis3&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=accelerated
keylow=113 keyhigh=114</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis4&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=accelerated
keylow=111 keyhigh=116</i><b>&quot;</b> <br/>
will map the first and third axis to the arrow keys
<i>left</i> and <i>right</i> and the second and fourth axis
to the arrow keys <i>up</i> and <i>down</i>. The keys for
the first two axes will be generated in an interval
according to the value of the axis. The autorepeat speed of
the first axis will be half the speed of that of the second
axis. The keys for the third and fourth axis are generated
once when the axis moves out of the deadzone and when it
moves back into the deadzone. X.Org will autorepeat those
keys according to current keyboard settings.</p>

<h2 id="heading10">XI2 Events
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If you only
care about raw events instead of using the joystick as a
mouse replacement, don&rsquo;t forget to unmap and add
valuators to all axes and map the remaining buttons:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Option
&quot;MapAxis1&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=none
valuator</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis2&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=none
valuator</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis3&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=none
valuator</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapAxis4&quot; &quot;</b><i>mode=none
valuator</i><b>&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
Option &quot;MapButton1&quot;
&quot;</b><i>button=1</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton2&quot;
&quot;</b><i>button=2</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton3&quot;
&quot;</b><i>button=3</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton4&quot;
&quot;</b><i>button=4</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;MapButton5&quot;
&quot;</b><i>button=5</i><b>&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
...</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">You might also
want to set the device &quot;floating&quot; to stop it from
reporting core events: <b><br/>
Option &quot;Floating&quot;
&quot;</b><i>true</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<h2 id="heading11">NOTES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Configuration
through <i>InputClass</i> sections is recommended in X
servers 1.8 and later. See <a href="../man5/xorg.conf.d.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf.d</em>(5)</a> for more details.
An example xorg.conf.d snipped is provided in
<i>${sourcecode}/config/50-joystick-all.conf</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Configuration
through hal fdi files is recommended in X servers 1.5, 1.6
and 1.7. An example hal policy file is still provided in
<i>${sourcecode}/config/50-x11-input-joystick.fdi</i> to be
placed in <i>/etc/hal/fdi/policy</i>.</p>

<h2 id="heading12">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man5/xorg.conf.d.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf.d</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>,
<a href="../man1/xmodmap.1.xhtml"><em>xmodmap</em>(1)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading13">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Sascha Hlusiak
(2007-2011), <br/>
Frederic Lepied (1995-1999)</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
