<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:42 2012 -->
<title>KBD</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>KBD</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">EXAMPLE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">kbd &minus;
Keyboard input driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;InputDevice&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>idevname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;kbd&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>kbd</b> is
an Xorg input driver for keyboards. The driver supports the
standard OS-provided keyboard interface, but these are
currently only available to this driver module for Linux,
BSD, and Solaris. This driver is the replacement for the
built-in <b>keyboard</b> driver formerly included in
Xorg.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The <b>kbd</b>
driver functions as a keyboard input device.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Depending on
the X server version in use, input device options may be set
in either a xorg.conf file, an xorg.conf.d snippet, or in
the configuration files read by the Hardware Abstraction
Layer (HAL) daemon, <a href="../man1/hald.1.xhtml"><em>hald</em>(1)</a>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details and for
options that can be used with all input drivers. This
section only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;Device&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Specify the keyboard device.
Default: the OS&rsquo;s default console keyboard input
source.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Protocol&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Specify the keyboard protocol.
Valid protocol types include:</p>

<p style="margin-left:29%; margin-top: 1em">Standard,
Xqueue.</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">Not all
protocols are supported on all platforms. Default:
&quot;Standard&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;XLeds&quot;
&quot;</b><i>ledlist</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">makes the keyboard LEDs
specified in <i>ledlist</i> available for client use instead
of their traditional function (Scroll Lock, Caps Lock and
Num Lock). The numbers in the list are in the range 1 to 3.
Default: empty list.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;XkbRules&quot;
&quot;</b><i>rules</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">specifies which XKB rules file
to use for interpreting the <b>XkbModel</b>,
<b>XkbLayout</b>, <b>XkbVariant</b>, and <b>XkbOptions</b>
settings. Default: &quot;base&quot; for most platforms. If
you use the &quot;base&quot; value then you can find listing
of all valid values for these four options in the
<i>/usr/share/X11/xkb/rules/base.lst</i>
file.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;XkbModel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>modelname</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">specifies the XKB keyboard
model name. Default: &quot;pc105&quot; for most
platforms.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;XkbLayout&quot;
&quot;</b><i>layoutname</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">specifies the XKB keyboard
layout name. This is usually the country or language type of
the keyboard. Default: &quot;us&quot; for most
platforms.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;XkbVariant&quot;
&quot;</b><i>variants</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">specifies the XKB keyboard
variant components. These can be used to enhance the
keyboard layout details. Default: not set.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;XkbOptions&quot;
&quot;</b><i>options</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">specifies the XKB keyboard
option components. These can be used to enhance the keyboard
behaviour. Default: not set.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">For a list of
available XKB options, see <b>xkeyboard-<a href="../man7/config.7.xhtml"><em>config</em>(7)</a>.</b></p>

<h2 id="heading5">EXAMPLE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
xorg.conf fragment ensures that user will be able to switch
between <i>us</i> and <i>sk</i> layouts by pressing the
&quot;menu&quot; key. The scroll lock LED shows which layout
is currently active.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>XkbVariant</b> option defines which variants of the two
layouts should be used. In case of the <i>us</i> layout its
default variant is used. In case of the <i>sk</i> layout its
<i>qwerty</i> variant is used.</p>

<p style="margin-left:17%; margin-top: 1em">Section
&quot;InputDevice&quot;</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Identifier &quot;Generic
Keyboard&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;kbd&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;CoreKeyboard&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;XkbRules&quot; &quot;base&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;XkbModel&quot; &quot;pc105&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;XkbLayout&quot; &quot;us,sk&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;XkbVariant&quot; &quot;,qwerty&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;XkbOptions&quot;
&quot;grp:menu_toggle,grp_led:scroll&quot;</p>

<p style="margin-left:17%;">EndSection</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/hal.7.xhtml"><em>hal</em>(7)</a>,
<a href="../man8/hald.8.xhtml"><em>hald</em>(8)</a>, <a href="../man5/fdi.5.xhtml"><em>fdi</em>(5)</a>.</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xkeyboard-<a href="../man7/config.7.xhtml"><em>config</em>(7)</a>.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
