<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:35 2012 -->
<title>mga</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>mga</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">mga &minus;
Matrox video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;mga&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>mga</b> is
an Xorg driver for Matrox video cards. The driver is fully
accelerated, and provides support for the following
framebuffer depths: 8, 15, 16, 24, and an 8+24 overlay mode.
All visual types are supported for depth 8, and both
TrueColor and DirectColor visuals are supported for the
other depths except 8+24 mode which supports PseudoColor,
GrayScale and TrueColor. Multi&minus;card configurations are
supported. XVideo is supported on G200 and newer systems,
with either <b>TexturedVideo</b> or video overlay. The
second head of dual&minus;head cards is supported for the
G450 and G550. Support for the second head on G400 cards
requires a binary&minus;only &quot;mga_hal&quot; module that
is available from Matrox &lt;http://www.matrox.com&gt;, and
may be on the CD supplied with the card. That module also
provides various other enhancements, and may be necessary to
use the DVI (digital) output on the G550 (and other
cards).</p>

<h2 id="heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The <b>mga</b>
driver supports PCI and AGP video cards based on the
following Matrox chips. They are listed in approximate
chronological order of production (with the most recent
chipsets listed last), so consult this list when you are
unsure whether your card is meant when references are made
to &lsquo;G200 and later&rsquo; chips, for example. <b><br/>
MGA2064W <br/>
MGA1064SG</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Mystique</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>MGA2164W</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Millennium II</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="6%"></col>
<col width="5%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>G100</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Productiva G100</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>G200</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Millennium G200 and Mystique G200</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>G400</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Millennium G400, Millennium G400 MAX, Millennium G450,
and Marvel G450 eTV</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>G550</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Millennium G550 and Millennium G550 Dual DVI</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
auto&minus;detects the chipset type, but the following
<b>ChipSet</b> names may optionally be specified in the
config file <b>&quot;Device&quot;</b> section, and will
override the auto&minus;detection:</p>


<p style="margin-left:17%; margin-top: 1em">&quot;mga2064w&quot;,
&quot;mga1064sg&quot;, &quot;mga2164w&quot;, &quot;mga2164w
agp&quot;, &quot;mgag100&quot;, &quot;mgag200&quot;,
&quot;mgag200 pci&quot;, &quot;mgag400&quot;,
&quot;mgag550&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The G450 is
Chipset &quot;mgag400&quot; with ChipRev 0x80.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver will
auto&minus;detect the amount of video memory present for all
chips except the Millennium II. In the Millennium II case it
defaults to 4096&nbsp;kBytes. When using a Millennium II,
the actual amount of video memory should be specified with a
<b>VideoRam</b> entry in the config file
<b>&quot;Device&quot;</b> section.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;ColorKey&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set the colormap index used for
the transparency key for the depth 8 plane when operating in
8+24 overlay mode. The value must be in the range
2&minus;255. Default: 255.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;HWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable the HW
cursor. Default: on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;MGASDRAM&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Specify whether G100, G200 or
G400 cards have SDRAM. The driver attempts to
auto&minus;detect this based on the card&rsquo;s PCI
subsystem ID. This option may be used to override that
auto&minus;detection. The <b>mga</b> driver is not able to
auto&minus;detect the presence of of SDRAM on secondary
heads in multihead configurations so this option will often
need to be specified in multihead configurations. Default:
auto&minus;detected.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable acceleration.
Default: acceleration is enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;AccelMethod&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Chooses between available
acceleration architectures. Valid options are <b>XAA</b> and
<b>EXA.</b> XAA is the traditional acceleration architecture
and support for it is very stable. EXA is a newer
acceleration architecture with better performance for the
Render and Composite extensions, but the rendering code for
it is newer and possibly unstable. The default is
<b>XAA.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoHal&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable loading the
&quot;mga_hal&quot; module. Default: the module is loaded
when available and when using hardware that it supports.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;OverclockMem&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set clocks to values used by
some commercial X Servers (G100, G200 and G400 only).
Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;PciRetry&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable PCI retries.
Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Rotate&quot;
&quot;CW&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;Rotate&quot; &quot;CCW&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Rotate the display clockwise or
counterclockwise. This mode is unaccelerated. Default: no
rotation.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;ShadowFB&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable use of the
shadow framebuffer layer. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;SyncOnGreen&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable combining the
sync signals with the green signal. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;UseFBDev&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable use of on
OS&minus;specific fb interface (and is not supported on all
OSs). See <a href="../man4/fbdevhw.4.xhtml"><em>fbdevhw</em>(4)</a> for further information. Default:
off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;VideoKey&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This sets the default pixel
value for the YUV video overlay key. Default: undefined.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TexturedVideo&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This has XvImage support use
the texture engine rather than the video overlay. This
option is only supported by G200 and later chips, and only
at 16 and 32 bits per pixel. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;OldDmaInit&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This forces the driver to use
the old DMA initialization path for DRI. Use this option
only to support a older version of the DRI driver with a
newer DRM (version 3.2 or later). This option also disables
the use of direct rendering on PCI cards. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ForcePciDma&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This forces the use of PCI DMA
even if AGP DMA could be used. This option is primarily
intended for testing purposes, but it could also be used on
systems with a buggy or poorly function AGP implementation.
Default: off.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Authors
include: Radoslaw Kapitan, Mark Vojkovich, and also David
Dawes, Guy Desbief, Dirk Hohndel, Doug Merritt, Andrew E.
Mileski, Andrew van der Stock, Leonard N. Zubkoff, Andrew C.
Aitchison.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
