<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:32 2012 -->
<title>NEOMAGIC</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>NEOMAGIC</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">neomagic
&minus; Neomagic video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;neomagic&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>neomagic</b>
is an Xorg driver for the Neomagic graphics chipsets found
in many laptop computers.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>neomagic</b>
supports the following chipsets: <br/>
MagicGraph 128 (NM2070) <br/>
MagicGraph 128V (NM2090) <br/>
MagicGraph 128ZV (NM2093) <br/>
MagicGraph 128ZV+ (NM2097) <br/>
MagicGraph 128XD (NM2160) <br/>
MagicGraph 256AV (NM2200) <br/>
MagicGraph 256AV+ (NM2230) <br/>
MagicGraph 256ZX (NM2360) <br/>
MagicGraph 256XL+ (NM2380)</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
supports depths 8, 15, 16 and 24 for all chipsets except the
NM2070 which does not support depth 24. All depths are
accelerated except for depth 24 which is only accelerated on
NM2200 and newer models. All visuals are supported in depth
8. TrueColor and DirectColor visuals are supported in the
other depths.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported <b><br/>
Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable acceleration.
Default: acceleration is enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;SWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable software
cursor. Default: software cursor is disable and a hardware
cursor is used.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;PCIBurst&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable PCI burst
modes. Default: enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Rotate&quot;
&quot;CW&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;Rotate&quot; &quot;CCW&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Rotate the display clockwise or
counterclockwise. This mode is unaccelerated. Default: no
rotation.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;ShadowFB&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable use of the
shadow framebuffer layer. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;OverlayMem&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Reserve the given amount of
memory (in bytes) for the XVideo overlay. On boards with
limited memory, display of large XVideo buffers might fail
due to insufficient available memory. Using this option
solves the problem at the expense of reducing the memory
available for other operations. For full&minus;resolution
DVDs, 829440 bytes (720x576x2) are necessary.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Note</b>
<br/>
On some laptops using the 2160 chipset (MagicGraph 128XD)
the following options are needed to avoid a lock-up of the
graphic engine: <br/>
Option &quot;XaaNoScanlineImageWriteRect&quot; <br/>
Option
&quot;XaaNoScanlineCPUToScreenColorExpandFill&quot;</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Authors
include: Jens Owen, Kevin E. Martin, and also Egbert Eich,
Mark Vojkovich, Alan Hourihane.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
