<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:36 2012 -->
<title>NV</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>NV</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHORS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">COPYRIGHT</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">nv &minus;
NVIDIA video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;nv&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>nv</b> is an
Xorg driver for NVIDIA video cards. The driver supports 2D
acceleration and provides support for the following
framebuffer depths: 8, 15, 16 (except Riva128) and 24. All
visual types are supported for depth 8, TrueColor and
DirectColor visuals are supported for the other depths with
the exception of the Riva128 which only supports TrueColor
in the higher depths.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The <b>nv</b>
driver supports PCI, PCI-Express and AGP video cards based
on the following NVIDIA chips:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="32%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="55%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RIVA 128</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV3</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RIVA TNT</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV4</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>RIVA TNT2</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV5</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>GeForce 256, Quadro</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV10</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>GeForce2, Quadro2</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV11 &amp; NV15</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>GeForce3, Quadro DCC</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV20</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>nForce, nForce2</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV1A, NV1F</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>GeForce4, Quadro4</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV17, NV18, NV25, NV28</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>GeForce FX, Quadro FX</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV30, NV31, NV34, NV35, NV36, NV37, NV38</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>GeForce 6XXX</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>NV40, NV41, NV43, NV44, NV45, C51</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>GeForce 7XXX</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>G70, G71, G72, G73, MCP6x</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>GeForce 8XXX, GeForce 9XXX,
nForce 7, GeForce G, ION</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:45%;">G8x, G9x, GT21x, MCP7x</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="17%"></col>
<col width="17%" class="center"></col>
<col width="7%"></col>
<col width="48%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>GeForce GTX</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>GT200</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
auto-detects the chipset type and the amount of video memory
present for all chips.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported for pre-G80 hardware:
<b><br/>
Option &quot;HWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable the HW
cursor. Default: on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable acceleration.
Default: acceleration is enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;UseFBDev&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable use of an
OS-specific fb interface (and is not supported on all OSs).
See <a href="../man4/fbdevhw.4.xhtml"><em>fbdevhw</em>(4)</a> for further information. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;CrtcNumber&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Many graphics cards with NVIDIA
chips have two video outputs. The driver attempts to
autodetect which one the monitor is connected to. In the
case that autodetection picks the wrong one, this option may
be used to force usage of a particular output. The options
are &quot;0&quot; or &quot;1&quot;. Default:
autodetected.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Dualhead&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enables simple VBE-based dual
head mode. This sets the same resolution on both outputs and
lays them out side-by-side. The screens will be panned
together as one big metamode if the virtual desktop is
larger than both screens combined.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;FlatPanel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">The driver usually can
autodetect the presence of a digital flat panel. In the case
that this fails, this option can be used to force the driver
to treat the attached device as a digital flat panel. With
this driver, a digital flat panel will work only if it was
POSTed by the BIOS, that is, the computer must have booted
to the panel. If you have a dual head card you may also need
to set the option CrtcNumber described above. Default:
autodetected.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;FPDither&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Many digital flat panels
(particularly ones on laptops) have only 6 bits per
component color resolution. This option tells the driver to
dither from 8 bits per component to 6 before the flat panel
truncates it. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;FPScale&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Supported only on GeForce4 and
newer chips, this option tells to the driver to scale lower
resolutions up to the flat panel&rsquo;s native resolution.
Default: on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Rotate&quot;
&quot;CW&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;Rotate&quot; &quot;CCW&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Rotate the display clockwise or
counterclockwise. This mode is unaccelerated. Default: no
rotation.</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">Note: The
Resize and Rotate extension will be disabled if the Rotate
&quot;CW&quot; or Rotate &quot;CCW&quot; options are
used.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Rotate&quot;
&quot;RandR&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable rotation of the screen
using the Resize and Rotate extension. This mode is
unaccelerated. Default: no rotation support.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;ShadowFB&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable use of the
shadow framebuffer layer. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are available for G80 and higher:
<b><br/>
Option &quot;HWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable the hardware
cursor. Default: on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable acceleration.
Default: acceleration is enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;AccelMethod&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Choose acceleration
architecture, either &quot;XAA&quot; or &quot;EXA&quot;. XAA
is the old but stable architecture. EXA is newer and
supports resizing the desktop larger than it started out
with RandR 1.2. If you choose to use EXA, you might also
consider setting <b>Option &quot;MigrationHeuristic&quot;
&quot;greedy&quot;</b> to improve performance. Default:
XAA.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;FPDither&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable flat panel
dithering by default. Dithering can also be enabled or
disabled using the RandR 1.2 &quot;dither&quot; output
property. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;AllowDualLinkModes&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Allow validation of dual-link
DVI modes. Not all GPUs are configured at boot time to be
able to handle dual-link modes, so they are disabled by
default.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
RandR 1.2 properties are available for flat panels on G80
and higher GPUs:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="2%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>dither</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Enable or disable flat panel dithering. Valid values:
<b>0</b> (off), <b>1</b> (on).</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>scale</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Control how the image is scaled to fit the flat panel.
Note that some flat panels perform their own scaling,
overriding this option. &quot;<b>off</b>&quot; is not valid
for laptop flat panels (LVDS). Valid values:
&quot;<b>off</b>&quot;, &quot;<b>aspect</b>&quot;,
&quot;<b>fill</b>&quot;, and &quot;<b>center</b>&quot;.
Default: &quot;<b>aspect</b>&quot;.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>, <a href="../man1/xrandr.1.xhtml"><em>xrandr</em>(1)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Authors
include: David McKay, Jarno Paananen, Chas Inman, Dave
Schmenk, Mark Vojkovich, Aaron Plattner</p>

<h2 id="heading8">COPYRIGHT
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Copyright (c)
2003-2008,2010 NVIDIA Corporation</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Permission is
hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files
(the &quot;Software&quot;), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom
the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The above
copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">THE SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED &quot;AS IS&quot;, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS
OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
