<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:39 2012 -->
<title>SAVAGE</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>SAVAGE</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">FILES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">savage &minus;
S3 Savage video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;savage&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>savage</b>
is an Xorg driver for the S3 Savage family video accelerator
chips. 2D, 3D, and Xv acceleration is supported on all chips
except the Savage2000 (2D only). Dualhead operation is
supported on MX, IX, and SuperSavage chips. The
<b>savage</b> driver supports PCI and AGP boards with the
following chips:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="23%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="65%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Savage3D</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8a20 and 8a21) (2D, 3D)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Savage4</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8a22) (2D, 3D)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Savage2000</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(9102) (2D only)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Savage/MX</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8c10 and 8c11) (2D, 3D, Dualhead)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Savage/IX</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8c12 and 8c13) (2D, 3D, Dualhead)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>SuperSavage/MX</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8c22, 8c24, and 8c26) (2D, 3D, Dualhead)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>SuperSavage/IX</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8c2a, 8c2b, 8c2c, 8c2d, 8c2e, and 8c2f) (2D, 3D,
Dualhead)</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>ProSavage PM133</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8a25) (2D, 3D)</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>ProSavage KM133</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8a26) (2D, 3D)</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Twister (ProSavage
PN133)</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:35%;">(8d01) (2D, 3D)</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>TwisterK (ProSavage
KN133)</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:35%;">(8d02) (2D, 3D)</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="23%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="23%"></col>
<col width="42%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>ProSavage DDR</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8d03) (2D, 3D)</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>ProSavage DDR-K</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>(8d04) (2D, 3D)</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading4">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;HWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;SWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">These two options interact to
specify hardware or software cursor. If the SWCursor option
is specified, any HWCursor setting is ignored. Thus, either
&quot;HWCursor off&quot; or &quot;SWCursor on&quot; will
force the use of the software cursor. On Savage/MX and
Savage/IX chips which are connected to LCDs, a software
cursor will be forced, because the Savage hardware cursor
does not correctly track the automatic panel expansion
feature. Default: hardware cursor.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable acceleration.
Default: acceleration is enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;AccelMethod&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Chooses between available
acceleration architectures. Valid options are <b>XAA</b> and
<b>EXA.</b> XAA is the traditional acceleration architecture
and support for it is very stable. EXA is a newer
acceleration architecture with better performance for the
Render and Composite extensions, but the rendering code for
it is newer and possibly unstable. The default is
<b>XAA.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Rotate&quot;
&quot;CW&quot; <br/>
Option &quot;Rotate&quot; &quot;CCW&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Rotate the desktop 90 degrees
clockwise or counterclockwise. This option forces the
ShadowFB option on, and disables acceleration and the RandR
extension. Default: no rotation.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;ShadowFB&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable use of the
shadow framebuffer layer. This option disables acceleration.
Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;LCDClock&quot;
&quot;</b><i>frequency</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Override the maximum dot clock.
Some LCD panels produce incorrect results if they are driven
at too fast of a frequency. If UseBIOS is on, the BIOS will
usually restrict the clock to the correct range. If not, it
might be necessary to override it here. The <b>frequency</b>
parameter may be specified as an integer in Hz (135750000),
or with standard suffixes like &quot;k&quot;,
&quot;kHz&quot;, &quot;M&quot;, or &quot;MHz&quot; (as in
135.75MHz).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;CrtOnly&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option disables output to
the LCD and enables output to the CRT port only. It is
useful on laptops if you only want to use the CRT port or to
force the CRT output only on desktop cards that use mobile
chips. Default: auto-detect active outputs</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;UseBIOS&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable use of the
video BIOS to change modes. Ordinarily, the <b>savage</b>
driver tries to use the video BIOS to do mode switches. This
generally produces the best results with the mobile chips
(/MX and /IX), since the BIOS knows how to handle the
critical but unusual timing requirements of the various LCD
panels supported by the chip. To do this, the driver
searches through the BIOS mode list, looking for the mode
which most closely matches the xorg.conf mode line. Some
purists find this scheme objectionable. If you would rather
have the <b>savage</b> driver use your mode line timing
exactly, turn off the UseBios option. <b>Note:</b> Use of
the BIOS is required for dualhead operation. Default: on
(use the BIOS).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;IgnoreEDID&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Do not use EDID data for mode
validation, but DDC is still used for monitor detection.
This is different from NoDDC option. <br/>
The default value is <b>off.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ShadowStatus&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enables the use of a shadow
status register. There is a chip bug in the Savage graphics
engine that can cause a bus lock when reading the engine
status register under heavy load, such as when scrolling
text or dragging windows. The bug affects about 4% of all
Savage users without DRI and a large fraction of users with
DRI. If your system hangs regularly while scrolling text or
dragging windows, try turning this option on. This uses an
alternate method of reading the engine status which is
slightly more expensive, but avoids the problem. When DRI is
enabled then the default is &quot;on&quot; (use shadow
status), otherwise the default is &quot;off&quot; (use
normal status register).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;DisableCOB&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disables the COB (Command
Overflow Buffer) on savage4 and newer chips. There is
supposedly a HW cache coherency problem on certain savage4
and newer chips that renders the COB useless. If you are
having problems with 2D acceleration you can disable the
COB, however you will lose some performance. 3D acceleration
requires the COB to work. This option only applies to
Savage4 and newer chips. Default: &quot;off&quot; (use
COB).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;BCIforXv&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Use the BCI to copy and
reformat Xv pixel data. Using the BCI for Xv causes graphics
artifacts on some chips. This option only applies to Savage4
and prosavage/twister chips. On some combinations of
chipsets and video players, BCI formatting might actually be
slower than software formatting (&quot;AGPforXv&quot; might
help in this case). BCI formatting can only be used on video
data with a width that is a multiple of 16 pixels (which is
the vast majority of videos). Other widths are handled
through software formatting. Default: on for prosavage and
twister (use BCI for Xv); off for savage4 (do not use the
BCI for Xv).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;AGPforXv&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Instructs the BCI Xv pixel
formatter to use AGP memory as a scratch buffer. Ordinarily
the BCI formatter uses a an area in framebuffer memory to
hold YV12 planar data to be converted for display. This
requires a somewhat expensive upload of YV12 data to
framebuffer memory. The &quot;AGPforXv&quot; option causes
the BCI formatter to place the YV12 data in AGP memory
instead, which can be uploaded faster than the framebuffer.
Use of this option cuts upload overhead by 25% according to
benchmarks. This option also smooths out most of the
shearing present when using BCI for pixel conversion.
Currently this option is <b>experimental</b> and is disabled
by default. Video width restrictions that apply to
&quot;BCIforXv&quot; also apply here. Only valid when
&quot;DRI&quot; and &quot;BCIforXv&quot; are both active,
and only on AGP chipsets. Default: &quot;off&quot;. <br/>
If &quot;AccelMethod&quot; is set to &quot;EXA&quot; and
&quot;AGPforXv&quot; is enabled, then the driver will also
attempt to reuse the AGP scratch buffer for UploadToScreen
acceleration.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;AGPMode&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set AGP data transfer rate.
(used only when DRI is enabled) <br/>
1 &minus;&minus; x1 (default) <br/>
2 &minus;&minus; x2 <br/>
4 &minus;&minus; x4 <br/>
others &minus;&minus; invalid</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;AGPSize&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">The amount of AGP memory that
will allocated for DMA and textures in MB. Valid sizes are
4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128 and 256. The default is 16MB.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;DmaMode&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option influences in which
way DMA (direct memory access) is used by the kernel and 3D
drivers. <br/>
Any &minus;&minus; Try command DMA first, then vertex DMA
(default) <br/>
Command &minus;&minus; Only use command DMA or don&rsquo;t
use DMA at all <br/>
Vertex &minus;&minus; Only use vertex DMA or don&rsquo;t use
DMA at all <br/>
None &minus;&minus; Disable DMA <br/>
Command and vertex DMA cannot be enabled at the same time.
Which DMA mode is actually used in the end also depends on
the DRM version (only &gt;= 2.4.0 supports command DMA) and
the hardware (Savage3D/MX/IX doesn&rsquo;t support command
DMA).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;DmaType&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">The type of memory that will be
used by the 3D driver for DMA (direct memory access). <br/>
PCI &minus;&minus; PCI memory (default on PCI cards) <br/>
AGP &minus;&minus; AGP memory (default on AGP cards) <br/>
&quot;AGP&quot; only works if you have an AGP card.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;BusType&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">The bus type that will be used
to access the graphics card. <br/>
PCI &minus;&minus; PCI bus (default on PCI cards) <br/>
AGP &minus;&minus; AGP bus (default on AGP cards) <br/>
&quot;AGP&quot; only works if you have an AGP card. If you
choose &quot;PCI&quot; on an AGP card the AGP bus speed is
not set and no AGP aperture is allocated. This implies
<b>DmaType</b> &quot;PCI&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;DRI&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable DRI support. This option
allows you to enable or disable the DRI. Default:
&quot;on&quot; (enable DRI).</p>

<h2 id="heading5">FILES
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">savage_drv.o</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Authors include
Tim Roberts (timr@probo.com) and Ani Joshi
(ajoshi@unixbox.com) for this version, and Tim Roberts and
S. Marineau for the original driver from which this was
derived.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
