<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:39 2012 -->
<title>siliconmotion</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>siliconmotion</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SUPPORT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">siliconmotion
&minus; Silicon Motion video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;siliconmotion&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... &nbsp;&nbsp; <br/>
[ <b>Option</b> &quot;optionname&quot;
[&quot;optionvalue&quot;]] <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>siliconmotion</b>
is an Xorg driver for Silicon Motion based video cards. The
driver is fully accelerated, and provides support for the
following framebuffer depths: 8, 16, and 24. All visual
types are supported for depth 8, and TrueColor visuals are
supported for the other depths.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>siliconmotion</b> driver supports PCI and AGP video cards
based on the following Silicon Motion chips:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="14%"></col>
<col width="4%" class="center"></col>
<col width="17%"></col>
<col width="54%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Lynx</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>SM910</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>LynxE</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>SM810</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Lynx3D</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>SM820</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>LynxEM</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>SM710</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>LynxEM+</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>SM712</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Lynx3DM</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>SM720</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Cougar3DR</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>SM731</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>MSOC</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>SM501,SM502</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this driver.
All options names are case and white space insensitive when
parsed by the server, for example, &quot;lynxe&quot; and
&quot;LynxE&quot; are equivalent.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Multihead mode
configuration is done through the RandR1.2 interface (see
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> and <a href="../man1/xrandr.1.xhtml"><em>xrandr</em>(1)</a> for further information).
Hardware accelerated screen rotation and framebuffer
resizing are only supported with the <b>EXA</b> acceleration
architecture (see the <b>AccelMethod</b> option below).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
auto-detects the chipset type, but the following
<b>ChipSet</b> names may optionally be specified in the
config file <b>&quot;Device&quot;</b> section, and will
override the auto-detection:</p>


<p style="margin-left:17%; margin-top: 1em">&quot;lynx&quot;,
&quot;lynxe&quot;, &quot;lynx3d&quot;, &quot;lynxem&quot;,
&quot;lynxem+&quot;, &quot;lynx3dm&quot;,
&quot;cougar3dr&quot;, &quot;msoc&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
Cursor <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;HWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable the HW
cursor. Default: on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;SWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Inverse of
&quot;HWCursor&quot;. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
display <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;VideoKey&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set the video color key.
Default: a little off full blue.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;ByteSwap&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Turn on byte swapping for
capturing using SMI demo board. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;Interlaced&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Turn on interlaced video
capturing. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;UseBIOS&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Use the BIOS to set the modes.
This is used for custom panel timings. Default: off for
SM72x and SM5xx, otherwise on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Dualhead&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable dualhead mode. Currently
not all chips are supported and hardware video overlay (XV)
support may have some limitations. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;PanelSize&quot;
&quot;</b><i>width</i><b>x</b><i>height</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Override LCD panel dimension
autodetection.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;UseFBDev&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Don&rsquo;t actually program
the hardware mode registers, but leave it as set by the
operating system. Only available on MSOC chips. Default:
off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;CSCVideo&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">CSC video uses color space
conversion to render video directly to the framebuffer,
without using an overlay. Only available on MSOC chips.
Default: on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
video memory <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;mclk&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Sets the memory clock. You must
specify the units. For example <i>50Mhz</i> is the same as
<i>50000Khz</i> or <i>50000000Hz</i>. On MSOC chips this is
the main clock source for all functional blocks, such as the
2D engine, GPIO, Video Engine, and DMA Engine. This option
is only used for debugging purposes on MSOC chips. Default:
probe the memory clock value, and use it at server
start.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;mxclk&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Sets the memory clock. You must
specify the units. For example <i>50Mhz</i> is the same as
<i>50000Khz</i> or <i>50000000Hz</i>. Clock source for the
local SDRAM controller. This option is only available on
MSOC chips and used only for debugging purposes. Default:
probe the memory clock value, and use it at server
start.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
acceleration and graphics engine <b>Options</b> are
supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable acceleration. Very
useful for determining if the driver has problems with
drawing and acceleration routines. This is the first option
to try if your server runs but you see graphic corruption on
the screen. Using it decreases performance, as it uses
software emulation for drawing operations the video driver
can accelerate with hardware. Default: acceleration is
enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;AccelMethod&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Chooses between available
acceleration architectures. Valid options are <b>XAA</b> and
<b>EXA.</b> XAA is the traditional acceleration architecture
and support for it is very stable. EXA is a newer
acceleration architecture with better performance for the
Render and Composite extensions, but the rendering code for
it is newer and possibly unstable. The default is
<b>XAA.</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
PCI bus <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;PciBurst&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">will enable PCI burst mode.
This should work on all but a few broken PCI chipsets, and
will increase performance. Default: on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;PciRetry&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">will allow the driver to rely
on PCI Retry to program the registers. <b>PciBurst</b> must
be enabled for this to work. This will increase performance,
especially for small fills/blits, because the driver does
not have to poll the card before sending it commands to make
sure it is ready. It should work on most recent PCI
chipsets. Default: value of <i>PciBurst</i> option.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">SUPPORT
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">For assistance
with this driver, or Xorg in general, check the web site at
http://www.x.org/. If you find a problem with Xorg or have a
question not answered in the FAQ please use our bug report
form available on the web site or send mail to
xorg@lists.freedesktop.org. When reporting problems with the
driver send as much detail as possible, including chipset
type, a server output log, and operating system
specifics.</p>

<h2 id="heading8">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Kevin Brosius,
Matt Grossman, Harald Koenig, Sebastien Marineau, Mark
Vojkovich, Frido Garritsen, Corvin Zahn.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
