<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:33 2012 -->
<title>SIS</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>SIS</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">KNOWN BUGS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">sis &minus; SiS
and XGI video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;sis&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>sis</b> is
an Xorg driver for SiS (Silicon Integrated Systems) and XGI
video chips. The driver is accelerated and provides support
for colordepths of 8, 16 and 24 bpp. XVideo, Render and
other extensions are supported as well.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The <b>sis</b>
driver supports PCI, AGP and PCIe video cards based on the
following chipsets:</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>SiS5597/5598
SiS530/620 SiS6326/AGP/DVD SiS300/305 SiS540 SiS630/730
SiS315/E/H/PRO SiS550/551/552 SiS650/651/661/741 SiS330
(Xabre) SiS760/761 XGI Volari V3/V5/V8 XGI Volari Z7</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">In the
following text, the following terms are used:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>old
series</b> for SiS5597/5598, 530/620 and 6326/AGP/DVD</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>300
series</b> for SiS300/305, 540 and 630/730</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>315/330/340
series</b> for SiS315, 55x, 330, 661/741/76x (plus M, FX,
MX, GX variants thereof), 340 and all XGI chips.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Detailed
information on all supported options can be obtained at
http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This manpage
only covers a subset of the supported options.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>1. For all
supported chipsets</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>options</b> are supported on all chipsets:
<b><br/>
Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable 2D
acceleration. Default: acceleration is enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;HWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable the HW
cursor. Default: HWCursor is on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;SWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">The opposite of HWCursor.
Default: SWCursor is off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Rotate&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Rotate the display clockwise
(&quot;CW&quot;) or counter-clockwise (&quot;CCW&quot;).
This mode is unaccelerated. Using this option disables
XVideo and the Resize and Rotate extension (RandR). Rotation
and reflection (see below) are mutually exclusive. Default:
no rotation.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Reflect&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Reflect (mirror) the display
horizontally (&quot;X&quot;), vertically (&quot;Y&quot;) or
both (&quot;XY&quot;). This mode is unaccelerated. Using
this option disables XVideo and the Resize and Rotate
extension (RandR). Rotation (see above) and reflection are
mutually exclusive. Default: no reflection.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;CRT1Gamma&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable gamma
correction. (On the 300 and 315/330/340 series, this option
only affects CRT1 output). Default: Gamma correction is
enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>2. Old
series specific information</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver will
auto-detect the amount of video memory present for all these
chips, but in the case of the 6326, it will limit the memory
size to 4MB. This is because the 6326&rsquo;s 2D engine can
only address 4MB. The remaining memory seems to be intended
for 3D texture data, since only the 3D engine can address
RAM above 4MB. However, you can override this limitation
using the <b>&quot;VideoRAM&quot;</b> option in the Device
section if your board has more than 4MB and you need to use
it. However, 2D acceleration, XVideo and the HWCursor will
be disabled in this case.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">For the 6326,
the driver has two built-in modes for high resolutions which
you should use instead of the default ones. These are named
<b>&quot;SIS1280x1024-75&quot;</b> and
<b>&quot;SIS1600x1200-60&quot;</b> and they will be added to
the list of default modes. To use these modes, just place
them in your Screen section. Example:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Modes
&quot;SIS1600x1200-60&quot; &quot;SIS1280x1024x75&quot;
&quot;1024x768&quot; ...</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Of these modes,
1280x1024 is only available at 8, 15 and 16bpp. 1600x1200 is
available at 8bpp only.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">TV support for
the 6326</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">TV output is
supported for the 6326. The driver will auto detect a
connected TV and in this case add the following display
modes to the list of available display modes:
&quot;PAL800x600&quot;, &quot;PAL800x600U&quot;,
&quot;PAL720x540&quot;, &quot;PAL640x480&quot;,
&quot;NTSC640x480&quot;, &quot;NTSC640x480U&quot; and
&quot;NTSC640x400&quot;. Use these modes like the hi-res
modes described above.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported on the old series:
<b><br/>
Option &quot;TurboQueue&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable TurboQueue
mode. Default: off for SIS530/620, on for the others</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;FastVram&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable FastVram
mode. Enabling this sets the video RAM timing to one cycle
per read operation instead of two cycles. Disabling this
will set two cycles for read and write operations. Leaving
this option out uses the default, which varies depending on
the chipset.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoHostBus&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">(SiS5597/5598 only). Disable
CPU-to-VGA host bus support. This speeds up CPU to video RAM
transfers. Default: Host bus is enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoXVideo&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable XV (XVideo) extension
support. Default: XVideo is on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoYV12&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable YV12 Xv support. This
might me required due to hardware bugs in some chipsets.
Disabling YV12 support forces Xv-aware applications to use
YUV2 or XShm for video output. Default: YV12 support is
on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TVStandard&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">(6326 only) Valid parameters
are <b>PAL</b> or <b>NTSC.</b> The default is set by a
jumper on the card.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TVXPosOffset&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">(6326 only) This option allows
tuning the horizontal position of the image for TV output.
The range is from -16 to 16. Default: 0</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TVYPosOffset&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">(6326 only) This option allows
tuning the vertical position of the image for TV output. The
range is from -16 to 16. Default: 0</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;SIS6326TVEnableYFilter&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">(6326 only) This option allows
enabling/disabling the Y (chroma) filter for TV output.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;SIS6326TVAntiFlicker&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">(6326 only) This option allow
enabling/disabling the anti flicker facility for TV output.
Possible parameters are <b>OFF, LOW, MED, HIGH</b> or
<b>ADAPTIVE.</b> By experience, <b>ADAPTIVE</b> yields the
best results, hence it is the default.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>2. 300 and
315/330/340 series specific information</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The 300 and
315/330/340 series, except the XGI Z7, feature two CRT
controllers and very often come with a video bridge for
controlling LCD and TV output. Hereinafter, the term
<b>CRT1</b> refers to the VGA output of the chip, and
<b>CRT2</b> refers to either LCD, TV or secondary VGA. Due
to timing reasons, only one CRT2 output can be active at the
same time. But this limitation does not apply to using CRT1
and CRT2 at the same time which makes it possible to run the
driver in dual head mode.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
supports the following video bridges:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>SiS301
SiS301B(-DH) SiS301C SiS301LV SiS302(E)LV</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Instead of a
video bridge, some machines have a third party <b>LVDS</b>
transmitter to control LCD panels, and/or a <b>Chrontel
7005</b> or <b>7019</b> for TV output. All these are
supported as well.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">About TV
output</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
fully supports standard (PAL, NTSC, PAL-N, PAL-M) S-video or
composite output as well as high definition TV (HDTV) output
via YPbPr plugs. For more information on HDTV, please
consult the author&rsquo;s website.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">As regards
S-video and CVBS output, the SiS301 and the Chrontel 7005
only support resolutions up to 800x600. All others support
resolutions up to 1024x768. However, due to a hardware bug,
Xvideo might be distorted on SiS video bridges if running
NTSC or PAL-M at 1024x768.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">About XVideo
support</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">XVideo is
supported on all chipsets of both families (except the XGI
Volari Z7 which lacks hardware support for video overlays).
However, there are some differences in hardware features
which cause limitations. The 300 series as well as the
SiS55x, M650, 651, 661FX, M661FX, M661MX, 741, 741GX, M741,
76x, M76x support two video overlays. The SiS315/H/PRO,
650/740, 330, 340 and the XGI Volari V3, V5 and V8 chips
support only one such overlay. On chips with two overlays,
one overlay is used for CRT1, the other for CRT2. On the
other chipsets, the option <b>&quot;XvOnCRT2&quot;</b> can
be used to select the desired output device (CRT1 or
CRT2).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">About Merged
Framebuffer support</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Merged
framebuffer mode is similar to dual head/Xinerama mode (for
using two output devices of one card at the same time), but
has a few advantages which make me recommend it strongly
over Xinerama. Please see
http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml for detailed
information.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">About dual-head
support</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Dual head mode
with or without Xinerama is fully supported, be it with one
card driving two outputs, be it two cards. Note that
colordepth 8 is not supported in dual head mode if run on
one card with two outputs.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported on the 300 and
315/330/340 series: <b><br/>
Option &quot;NoXVideo&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable XV (XVideo) extension
support. Default: XVideo is on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;XvOnCRT2&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">On chipsets with only one video
overlay, this option can used to bind the overlay to CRT1 (
if a monitor is detected and if this option is either unset
or set to <b>false</b> ) or CRT2 ( if a CRT2 device is
detected or forced, and if this option is set to <b>true</b>
). If either only CRT1 or CRT2 is detected, the driver
decides automatically. In Merged Framebuffer mode, this
option is ignored. Default: overlay is used on CRT1</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;ForceCRT1&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Force CRT1 to be on of off. If
a monitor is connected, it will be detected during server
start. However, some old monitors are not detected
correctly. In such cases, you may set this option to
<b>on</b> in order to make the driver initialize CRT1
anyway. If this option is set to <b>off</b> , the driver
will switch off CRT1. Default: auto-detect</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;ForceCRT2Type&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Force display type to one of:
<b>NONE</b> , <b>TV</b> , <b>SVIDEO</b> , <b>COMPOSITE</b> ,
<b>SVIDEO+COMPOSITE</b> , <b>SCART</b> , <b>LCD</b> ,
<b>VGA</b> ; <b>NONE</b> will disable CRT2. The SVIDEO,
COMPOSITE, SVIDEO+COMPOSITE and SCART parameters are for SiS
video bridges only and can be used to force the driver to
use a specific TV output connector (if present). For further
parameters, see the author&rsquo;s website. Default: auto
detect.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;CRT2Gamma&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable gamma
correction for CRT2. Only supported for SiS video bridges.
Default: Gamma correction for CRT2 is on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TVStandard&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Force the TV standard to either
<b>PAL</b> or <b>NTSC.</b> On some machines with 630, 730
and the 315/330/340 series, <b>PALM</b> , <b>PALN</b> and
<b>NTSCJ</b> are supported as well. Default: BIOS
setting.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TVXPosOffset&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option allows tuning the
horizontal position of the image for TV output. The range is
from -32 to 32. Not supported on the Chrontel 7019. Default:
0</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;TVYPosOffset&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option allows tuning the
vertical position of the image for TV output. The range is
from -32 to 32. Not supported on the Chrontel 7019. Default:
0</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;SISTVXScale&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option selects the
horizontal zooming level for TV output. The range is from
-16 to 16. Only supported on SiS video bridges. Default:
0</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;SISTVYScale&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option selects the
vertical zooming level for TV output in the following modes:
640x480, 800x600. On the 315/330/340 series, also 720x480,
720x576 and 768x576. The range is from -4 to 3. Only
supported on SiS video bridges. Default: 0</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;CHTVOverscan&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">On machines with a Chrontel TV
encoder, this can be used to force the TV mode to overscan
or underscan. <b>on</b> means overscan, <b>off</b> means
underscan. Default: BIOS setting.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;CHTVSuperOverscan&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">On machines with a Chrontel
7005 TV encoder, this option enables a super-overscan mode.
This is only supported if the TV standard is PAL. Super
overscan will produce an image on the TV which is larger
than the viewable area.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The driver
supports many more options. Please see
http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml for more
information.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>3. 300
series specific information</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">DRI is
supported on the 300 series only. On Linux, prior to kernel
2.6.3, DRI requires the kernel&rsquo;s SiS framebuffer
driver ( <b>sisfb</b> ). The SiS DRM kernel driver as well
as the SiS DRI client driver are required in any case.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Sisfb, if
installed and running, takes care of memory management for
texture data. In order to prevent the X Server and sisfb
from overwriting each other&rsquo;s data, sisfb reserves an
amount of video memory for the X driver. This amount can
either be selected using sisfb&rsquo;s mem parameter, or
auto-selected depending on the amount of total video RAM
available.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Sisfb can be
used for memory management only, or as a complete
framebuffer driver. If you start sisfb with a valid mode (ie
you gain a graphical console), the X driver can communicate
with sisfb and doesn&rsquo;t require any manual
configuration for finding out about the video memory it is
allowed to use.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">However, if you
are running a 2.4 series Linux kernel and use sisfb for
video memory management only, ie you started sisfb with
mode=none and still have a text mode console, there is no
communication between sisfb and the X driver. For this
purpose, the <b><br/>
Option &quot;MaxXFBMem&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">exists. This
option must be set to the same value as given to sisfb
through its &quot;mem&quot; parameter, ie the amount of
memory to use for X in kilobytes.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If you started
sisfb without the mem argument, sisfb will reserve <br/>
12288KB if more than 16MB of total video RAM is available,
<br/>
8192KB if between 12 and 16MB of video RAM is available,
<br/>
4096KB in all other cases.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If you intend
to use DRI on an integrated chipset (540, 630, 730), I
recommend setting the total video memory in the BIOS setup
utility to 64MB.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">PLEASE NOTE: As
of Linux 2.6.3 and under *BSD, sisfb is not required for
memory management. Hence, this option is mandatory on such
systems not running sisfb to decide how much memory X should
reserve for DRI. If the option is omitted, DRI will have no
memory assigned, and all DRI applications will quit with
errors like &quot;failed to allocate Z-buffer&quot; or the
like. <b><br/>
Option &quot;DRI&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option allows enabling or
disabling DRI. By default, DRI is on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;AGPSize&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This option allows selecting
the amount of AGP memory to be used for DRI. The amount is
to be specified in megabyte, the default is 8.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">KNOWN BUGS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">none.</p>

<h2 id="heading7">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml</b>
for more information and updates</p>

<h2 id="heading8">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Author: Thomas
Winischhofer. Formerly based on code by Alan Hourihane, Mike
Chapman, Juanjo Santamarta, Mitani Hiroshi, David Thomas,
Sung-Ching Lin, Ademar Reis.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
