<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:41 2012 -->
<title>TRIDENT</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>TRIDENT</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">trident &minus;
Trident video driver</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Section
&quot;Device&quot; <br/>
Identifier &quot;</b><i>devname</i><b>&quot; <br/>
Driver &quot;trident&quot; &nbsp;&nbsp;</b> <br/>
... <b><br/>
EndSection</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>trident</b>
is an Xorg driver for Trident video cards. The driver is
accelerated, and provides support for the following
framebuffer depths: 1, 4, 8, 15, 16, and 24. Multi-head
configurations are supported. The XvImage extension is
supported on TGUI96xx and greater cards.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">SUPPORTED HARDWARE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>trident</b> driver supports PCI,AGP and ISA video cards
based on the following Trident chips:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="14%"></col>
<col width="4%" class="center"></col>
<col width="71%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Blade</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Blade3D, CyberBlade series i1, i7 (DSTN), i1, i1 (DSTN),
Ai1, Ai1 (DSTN), CyberBlade/e4, CyberBladeXP,
CyberBladeAi1/XP, BladeXP</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>Image</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>3DImage975, 3DImage985, Cyber9520, Cyber9525, Cyber9397,
Cyber9397DVD</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>ProVidia</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>9682, 9685, Cyber9382, Cyber9385, Cyber9388</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>TGUI</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>9440AGi, 9660, 9680</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>ISA/VLBus</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>8900C, 8900D, 9000, 9200CXr, Cyber9320, 9400CXi, 9440AGi
These cards have been ported but need further testing and
may not work.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION DETAILS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Please refer to
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a> for general configuration details. This section
only covers configuration details specific to this
driver.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
driver <b>Options</b> are supported: <b><br/>
Option &quot;SWCursor&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable the SW
cursor. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;NoAccel&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Disable or enable acceleration.
Default: acceleration is enabled.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;PciRetry&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable PCI retries.
Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;CyberShadow&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">For Cyber chipsets only, turn
off shadow registers. If you only see a partial display -
this may be the option for you. Default: on.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;CyberStretch&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">For Cyber chipsets only, turn
on stretching. When the resolution is lower than the
LCD&rsquo;s screen, this option will stretch the graphics
mode to fill the entire LCD. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;ShadowFB&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Enable or disable use of the
shadow framebuffer layer. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;VideoKey&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This sets the default pixel
value for the YUV video overlay key. Default: undefined.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;TVChipset&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This sets the TV chipset.
Options are CH7005 or VT1621. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;TVSignal&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This sets the TV signalling.
Options are 0 for NTSC or 1 for PAL. Default: undefined.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;NoPciBurst&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Turn off PCI burst mode, PCI
Bursting is on by default. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;XvHsync&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Override the default
Horizontal-sync value for the Xv extension. This is used to
center the Xv image on the screen. By default the values are
assigned based on the video card. Default: 0.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;XvVsync&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Override the default
Vertical-sync value for the Xv extension. This is used to
center the Xv image on the screen. By default the values are
assigned based on the video card. Default: 0.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;XvBskew&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Override the default Bottom
skew value for the Xv extension. This is used to extend the
Xv image on the screen at the bottom. By default the values
are assigned based on the video card. Default: 0.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;XvRskew&quot;
&quot;</b><i>integer</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Override the default Right skew
value for the Xv extension. This is used to extend the Xv
image on the screen at the right. By default the values are
assigned based on the video card. Default: 0.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option &quot;Display&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Override the display. Possible
values are &quot;CRT&quot;, &quot;LCD&quot; and
&quot;Dual&quot;. Please note that this option is only
experimentally. Default: Use display active when X
started.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;Display1400&quot;
&quot;</b><i>boolean</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Inform driver to expect
1400x1050 display instead of a 1280x1024. Default: off.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Option
&quot;GammaBrightness&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set display gamma value and
brightness. &quot;<i>string</i>&quot; is &quot;<i>gamma</i>,
<i>brightness</i>&quot;, where <i>gamma</i> is a floating
point value greater than 0 and less or equal to 10.
<i>brightness</i> is an integer value greater or equal to 0
and less than 128. Default: gamma and brightness control is
turned off. Note: This is not supported on all chipsets.
<b>Option &quot;AccelMethod&quot;
&quot;</b><i>string</i><b>&quot;</b> Choose acceleration
architecture, either &quot;XAA&quot; or &quot;EXA&quot;. XAA
is the old (but stable) XFree86 based acceleration
architecture. EXA is a newer and simpler acceleration
architecture designed to better accelerate the X Render
extension. Default: &quot;XAA&quot;.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xorg.1.xhtml"><em>Xorg</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man5/xorg.conf.5.xhtml"><em>xorg.conf</em>(5)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Author: Alan
Hourihane, EXA for Blade chips by Jesse Barnes</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
