<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:45 2012 -->
<title>ccmakedep</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>ccmakedep</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">EXAMPLE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">ccmakedep
&minus; create dependencies in makefiles using a C
compiler</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>ccmakedep</b>
[ <b>cpp-flags</b> ] [ <b>&minus;w</b><i>width</i> ] [
<b>&minus;s</b><i>magic-string</i> ] [
<b>&minus;f</b><i>makefile</i> ] [
<b>&minus;o</b><i>object-suffix</i> ] [ <b>&minus;v</b> ] [
<b>&minus;a</b> ] [ <b>&minus;cc</b><i>compiler</i> ] [
&minus;&minus; <i>options</i> &minus;&minus; ]
<i>sourcefile</i> ...</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>ccmakedep</b> program calls a C compiler to preprocess
each <i>sourcefile</i>, and uses the output to construct
<i>makefile</i> rules describing their dependencies. These
rules instruct <a href="../man1/make.1.xhtml"><em>make</em>(1)</a> on which object files must be
recompiled when a dependency has changed.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">By default,
<b>ccmakedep</b> places its output in the file named
<i>makefile</i> if it exists, otherwise <i>Makefile.</i> An
alternate makefile may be specified with the <b>&minus;f</b>
option. It first searches the makefile for a line beginning
with</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"># DO NOT
DELETE</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">or one provided
with the <b>&minus;s</b> option, as a delimiter for the
dependency output. If it finds it, it will delete everything
following this up to the end of the makefile and put the
output after this line. If it doesn&rsquo;t find it, the
program will append the string to the makefile and place the
output after that.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">EXAMPLE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Normally,
<b>ccmakedep</b> will be used in a makefile target so that
typing &rsquo;make depend&rsquo; will bring the dependencies
up to date for the makefile. For example, <br/>
SRCS = file1.c file2.c ... <br/>
CFLAGS = &minus;O &minus;DHACK &minus;I../foobar &minus;xyz
<br/>
depend: <br/>
ccmakedep &minus;&minus; $(CFLAGS) &minus;&minus;
$(SRCS)</p>

<h2 id="heading5">OPTIONS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The program
will ignore any option that it does not understand, so you
may use the same arguments that you would for <a href="../man1/cc.1.xhtml"><em>cc</em>(1)</a>,
including <b>&minus;D</b> and <b>&minus;U</b> options to
define and undefine symbols and <b>&minus;I</b> to set the
include path.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;a</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Append the dependencies to the file instead of replacing
existing dependencies.</p></td></tr>
</table>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;cc</b><i>compiler</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Use this compiler to generate
dependencies.</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;f</b><i>makefile</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Filename. This allows you to
specify an alternate makefile in which <b>ccmakedep</b> can
place its output. Specifying &ldquo;&minus;&rdquo; as the
file name (that is, <b>&minus;f&minus;</b>) sends the output
to standard output instead of modifying an existing
file.</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;s</b><i>string</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Starting string delimiter. This
option permits you to specify a different string for
<b>ccmakedep</b> to look for in the makefile. The default is
&ldquo;# DO NOT DELETE&rdquo;.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;v</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Be verbose: display the C compiler command before
running it.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;&minus;</b>
<i>options</i> <b>&minus;&minus;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">If <b>ccmakedep</b> encounters
a double hyphen (&minus;&minus;) in the argument list, then
any unrecognized arguments following it will be silently
ignored. A second double hyphen terminates this special
treatment. In this way, <b>ccmakedep</b> can be made to
safely ignore esoteric compiler arguments that might
normally be found in a CFLAGS <b>make</b> macro (see the
<b>EXAMPLE</b> section above). <b>&minus;D</b>,
<b>&minus;I</b>, and <b>&minus;U</b> options appearing
between the pair of double hyphens are still processed
normally.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/cc.1.xhtml"><em>cc</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man1/make.1.xhtml"><em>make</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/makedepend.1.xhtml"><em>makedepend</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man1/ccmakedep.1.xhtml"><em>ccmakedep</em>(1)</a>.</p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHOR
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>ccmakedep</b>
was written by the X Consortium.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Colin Watson
wrote this manual page, originally for the Debian Project,
based partly on the manual page for
<a href="../man1/makedepend.1.xhtml"><em>makedepend</em>(1)</a>.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
