<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:49 2012 -->
<title>CXPM</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>CXPM</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">cxpm &minus;
Check an XPM (X PixMap) file - XPM 1, 2, or 3.</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>cxpm</b>
[<i>filename</i>]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The <b>cxpm</b>
program can be used to check the format of any XPM (version
1, 2, or 3) file. On error, unlike <b>sxpm</b>, <b>cxpm</b>
prints out an error message indicating where the parser
choked. This should help finding out what&rsquo;s wrong with
an XPM file but do not expect too much from it though. This
is not even close from being some kind of lint program for
XPM. First, it stops at the first error it encounters - so
several fix and retry cycles may be necessary to get your
file to parse successfully. Second, <b>cxpm</b> only cares
about the format. If, for instance, your pixmap uses too
many colors for your system you still may experience
difficulties displaying it. Be warned.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">When no
<i>filename</i> is given <b>cxpm</b> reads from the standard
input.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Arnaud Le Hors
(lehors@sophia.inria.fr) <br/>
Copyright (C) 1998 by Arnaud LE HORS.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
