<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:57 2012 -->
<title>MKFONTSCALE</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>MKFONTSCALE</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">NOTES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">mkfontscale
&minus; create an index of scalable font files for X</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>mkfontscale</b>
[ <b>&minus;b</b> ] [ <b>&minus;s</b> ] [ <b>&minus;o</b>
<i>filename</i> ] [ <b>&minus;x</b> <i>suffix</i> ] [
<b>&minus;a</b> <i>encoding</i> ] ... [ <b>&minus;f</b>
<i>fuzz</i> ] [ <b>&minus;l</b> ] [ <b>&minus;e</b>
<i>directory</i> ] [ <b>&minus;p</b> <i>prefix</i> ] [
<b>&minus;r</b> <i>prefix</i> ] [ <b>&minus;n</b>
<i>prefix</i> ] [ <b>&minus;&minus;</b> ] [ <i>directory</i>
] ...</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">For each
directory argument, <i>mkfontscale</i> reads all of the
scalable font files in the directory. For every font file
found, an X11 font name (XLFD) is generated, and is written
together with the file name to a file <b>fonts.scale</b> in
the directory.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The resulting
<b>fonts.scale</b> file should be checked and possibly
manually edited before being used as input for the
<a href="../man1/mkfontdir.1.xhtml"><em>mkfontdir</em>(1)</a> program.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;b</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">read bitmap fonts. By default,
bitmap fonts are ignored.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;s</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>ignore scalable fonts. By default, scalable fonts are
read. If <b>&minus;b</b> is set, this flag has the side
effect of enabling the reading of <b>fonts.scale</b>
files.</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;o</b>
<i>filename</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">send program output to
<i>filename</i>; default is <b>fonts.scale</b> if bitmap
fonts are not being read, and <b>fonts.dir</b> if they are.
If <i>filename</i> is relative, it is created in the
directory being processed. If it is the special value
<b>&minus;</b>, output is written to standard output.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;x</b>
<i>suffix</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">exclude all files with the
specified <i>suffix</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;a</b>
<i>encoding</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">add <i>encoding</i> to the list
of encodings searched for.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;f</b> <i>fuzz</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">set the fraction of characters
that may be missing in large encodings to <i>fuzz</i>
percent. Defaults to 2%.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;l</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Write <b>fonts.dir</b> files suitable for
implementations that cannot reencode legacy fonts (BDF and
PCF). By default, it is assumed that the implementation can
reencode Unicode-encoded legacy fonts.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-e</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>specifies a directory with encoding files. Every such
directory is scanned for encoding files, the list of which
is then written to an &quot;encodings.dir&quot; file in
every font directory.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-p</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Specifies a prefix that is prepended to the encoding
file path names when they are written to the
&quot;encodings.dir&quot; file. The prefix is prepended
literally: if a &lsquo;/&rsquo; is required between the
prefix and the path names, it must be supplied explicitly as
part of the prefix.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;r</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Keep non-absolute encoding directories in their relative
form when writing the &quot;encodings.dir&quot; file. The
default is to convert relative encoding directories to
absolute directories by prepending the current directory.
The positioning of this options is significant, as this
option only applies to subsequent <b>&minus;e</b>
options.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;n</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>do not scan for fonts, do not write font directory
files. This option is useful when generating encoding
directories only.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;&minus;</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>end of options.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>,
<a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/mkfontdir.1.xhtml"><em>mkfontdir</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/ttmkfdir.1.xhtml"><em>ttmkfdir</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/xfs.1.xhtml"><em>xfs</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/xset.1.xhtml"><em>xset</em>(1)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading6">NOTES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The format of
the <b>fonts.scale</b>, <b>fonts.dir</b> and
<b>encodings.dir</b> files is documented in the <a href="../man1/mkfontdir.1.xhtml"><em>mkfontdir</em>(1)</a>
manual page.</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Mkfontscale</b>
will overwrite any <b>fonts.scale</b> file even if it has
been hand-edited.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>mkfontscale
-b -s -l</b> is equivalent to <b>mkfontdir</b>.</p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The version of
<b>mkfontscale</b> included in this X.Org Foundation release
was originally written by Juliusz Chroboczek
&lt;jch@freedesktop.org&gt; for the XFree86 project. The
functionality of this program was inspired by the
<b>ttmkfdir</b> utility by Joerg Pommnitz.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
