<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:52 2012 -->
<title>SETXKBMAP</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>SETXKBMAP</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">USING WITH xkbcomp</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">FILES</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">setxkbmap
&minus; set the keyboard using the X Keyboard Extension</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>setxkbmap
[</b> <i>args</i> <b>] [</b> <i>layout</i> <b>[</b>
<i>variant</i> <b>[</b> <i>option ...</i> <b>] ] ]</b></p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>setxkbmap</b> command maps the keyboard to use the layout
determined by the options specified on the command line.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">An XKB keymap
is constructed from a number of components which are
compiled only as needed. The source for all of the
components can be found in
<i>/usr/share/X11/xkb</i>.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="7%"></col>
<col width="5%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;help</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Prints a message describing the
valid input to <i>setxkbmap</i>.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;compat</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of the
compatibility map component used to construct a keyboard
layout.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;config</b>
<i>file</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of an XKB
configuration file which describes the keyboard to be
used.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;device</b>
<i>device</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the numeric device id
of the input device to be updated with the new keyboard
layout. If not specified, the core keyboard device of the X
server is updated.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;display</b>
<i>display</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the display to be
updated with the new keyboard layout.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;geometry</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of the
geometry component used to construct a keyboard layout.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;I</b>
<i>directory</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Adds a directory to the list of
directories to be used to search for specified layout or
rules files.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;keycodes</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of the
keycodes component used to construct a keyboard layout.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;keymap</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of the
keymap description used to construct a keyboard layout.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;layout</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of the
layout used to determine the components which make up the
keyboard description. The <i>-layout</i> option may only be
used once. Multiple layouts can be specified as a
comma-separated list.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;model</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of the
keyboard model used to determine the components which make
up the keyboard description. Only one model may be specified
on the command line.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;option</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of an option
to determine the components which make up the keyboard
description; multiple options may be specified, one per
<i>-option</i> flag. Note that <b>setxkbmap</b> adds options
specified in the command line to the options that were set
before (as saved in root window properties). If you want to
replace all previously specified options, use the
<i>-option</i> flag with an empty argument first.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;print</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>With this option <b>setxkbmap</b> just prints component
names in a format acceptable by <b>xkbcomp</b> (an XKB
keymap compiler) and exits. The option can be used for tests
instead of a verbose option and in cases when one needs to
run both the <b>setxkbmap</b> and the <b>xkbcomp</b> in
chain (see below).</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;query</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>With this option <b>setxkbmap</b> just prints the
current rules, model, layout, variant, and options, then
exits.</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;rules</b>
<i>file</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of the rules
file used to resolve the requested layout and model to a set
of component names.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;symbols</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of the
symbols component used to construct a keyboard layout.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="57%"></col>
<col width="20%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;synch</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Force synchronization for X requests.</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;types</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the name of the types
component used to construct a keyboard layout.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;variant</b>
<i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies which variant of the
keyboard layout should be used to determine the components
which make up the keyboard description. The <i>-variant</i>
option may only be used once. Multiple variants can be
specified as a comma-separated list and will be matched with
the layouts specified with <i>-layout</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;verbose|&minus;v
[</b><i>level</i><b>]</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies level of verbosity in
output messages. Valid levels range from 0 (least verbose)
to 10 (most verbose). The default verbosity level is 5. If
no level is specified, each <i>-v</i> or <i>-verbose</i>
flag raises the level by 1.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">USING WITH xkbcomp
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If you have an
Xserver and a client shell running on different computers
and XKB configuration files on those machines are different
you can get problems specifying a keyboard map by model,
layout, options names. This is because <b>setxkbcomp</b>
converts these names to names of XKB configuration files
according to files that are on the client side computer,
then it sends the file names to the server where the
<b>xkbcomp</b> has to compose a complete keyboard map using
files which the server has. Thus if the sets of files differ
significantly the names that the <b>setxkbmap</b> generates
can be unacceptable on the server side. You can solve this
problem by running the <b>xkbcomp</b> on the client side
too. With the <i>-print</i> option <b>setxkbmap</b> just
prints the file names in an appropriate format to its stdout
and this output can be piped directly to the <b>xkbcomp</b>
input. For example, the command</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>setxkbmap us
-print | xkbcomp - $DISPLAY</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">makes both
steps run on the same (client) machine and loads a keyboard
map into the server.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/xkbcomp.1.xhtml"><em>xkbcomp</em>(1)</a>,
xkeyboard-<a href="../man7/config.7.xhtml"><em>config</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">FILES
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>/usr/share/X11/xkb</i></p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
