<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:51 2012 -->
<title>X11PERFCOMP</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>X11PERFCOMP</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNTAX</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">X DEFAULTS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">x11perfcomp
&minus; X11 server performance comparison program</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNTAX
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>x11perfcomp</b>
[ &minus;r | &minus;ro ] [ &minus;l label_file ] files</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>x11perfcomp</i> program merges the output of several
<i><a href="../man1/x11perf.1.xhtml"><em>x11perf</em>(1)</a></i> runs into a nice tabular format. It takes
the results in each file, fills in any missing test results
if necessary, and for each test shows the objects/second
rate of each server. If invoked with the -r or -ro options,
it shows the relative performance of each server to the
first server.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Normally,
<i>x11perfcomp</i> uses the first file specified to
determine which specific tests it should report on. Some
(non-DEC :) servers may fail to perform all tests. In this
case, <i>x11perfcomp</i> automatically substitutes in a rate
of 0.0 objects/second. Since the first file determines which
tests to report on, this file must contain a superset of the
tests reported in the other files, else <i>x11perfcomp</i>
will fail.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">You can provide
an explicit list of tests to report on by using the -l
switch to specify a file of labels. You can create a label
file by using the -label option in <i>x11perf.</i></p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>x11perfcomp</i>
accepts the options listed below:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="20%"></col>
<col width="4%" class="center"></col>
<col width="65%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;r</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Specifies that the output should also include relative
server performance.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;ro</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Specifies that the output should include only relative
server performance.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;l label_file</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Specifies a label file to use.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">X DEFAULTS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">There are no X
defaults used by this program.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>,
<a href="../man1/x11perf.1.xhtml"><em>x11perf</em>(1)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Mark Moraes
wrote the original scripts to compare servers. <br/>
Joel McCormack just munged them together a bit.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
