<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:47 2012 -->
<title>XAUTH</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XAUTH</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">COMMANDS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">DISPLAY NAMES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">EXAMPLE</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">ENVIRONMENT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading9">FILES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading10">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading11">BUGS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading12">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xauth &minus; X
authority file utility</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xauth</b> [
<b>&minus;f</b> <i>authfile</i> ] [ <b>&minus;vqibn</b> ] [
<i>command arg ...</i> ]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>xauth</i> program is used to edit and display the
authorization information used in connecting to the X
server. This program is usually used to extract
authorization records from one machine and merge them in on
another (as is the case when using remote logins or granting
access to other users). Commands (described below) may be
entered interactively, on the <i>xauth</i> command line, or
in scripts. Note that this program does <b>not</b> contact
the X server except when the generate command is used.
Normally <i>xauth</i> is not used to create the authority
file entry in the first place; the program that starts the X
server (often <i>xdm</i> or <i>startx</i>) does that.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
options may be used with <i>xauth</i>. They may be given
individually (e.g., <i>&minus;q &minus;i</i>) or may
combined (e.g., <i>&minus;qi</i>). <b><br/>
&minus;f</b> <i>authfile</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies the name
of the authority file to use. By default, <i>xauth</i> will
use the file specified by the XAUTHORITY environment
variable or <i>.Xauthority</i> in the user&rsquo;s home
directory.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="3%"></col>
<col width="9%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;q</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that <i>xauth</i> should operate
quietly and not print unsolicited status messages. This is
the default if an <i>xauth</i> command is given on the
command line or if the standard output is not directed to a
terminal.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;v</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that <i>xauth</i> should operate
verbosely and print status messages indicating the results
of various operations (e.g., how many records have been read
in or written out). This is the default if <i>xauth</i> is
reading commands from its standard input and its standard
output is directed to a terminal.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;i</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that <i>xauth</i> should ignore
any authority file locks. Normally, <i>xauth</i> will refuse
to read or edit any authority files that have been locked by
other programs (usually <i>xdm</i> or another
<i>xauth</i>).</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;b</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that <i>xauth</i> should attempt
to break any authority file locks before proceeding. Use
this option only to clean up stale locks.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;n</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that <i>xauth</i> should not
attempt to resolve any hostnames, but should simply always
print the host address as stored in the authority file.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">COMMANDS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
commands may be used to manipulate authority files: <b><br/>
add</b> <i>displayname protocolname hexkey</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">An authorization entry for the
indicated display using the given protocol and key data is
added to the authorization file. The data is specified as an
even-lengthed string of hexadecimal digits, each pair
representing one octet. The first digit of each pair gives
the most significant 4 bits of the octet, and the second
digit of the pair gives the least significant 4 bits. For
example, a 32 character hexkey would represent a 128-bit
value. A protocol name consisting of just a single period is
treated as an abbreviation for
<i>MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>generate</b> <i>displayname
protocolname</i> [<b>trusted|untrusted</b>]</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">[<b>timeout</b> <i>seconds</i>]
[<b>group</b> <i>group-id</i>] [<b>data</b>
<i>hexdata</i>]</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">This command is
similar to add. The main difference is that instead of
requiring the user to supply the key data, it connects to
the server specified in <i>displayname</i> and uses the
SECURITY extension in order to get the key data to store in
the authorization file. If the server cannot be contacted or
if it does not support the SECURITY extension, the command
fails. Otherwise, an authorization entry for the indicated
display using the given protocol is added to the
authorization file. A protocol name consisting of just a
single period is treated as an abbreviation for
<i>MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">If the
<b>trusted</b> option is used, clients that connect using
this authorization will have full run of the display, as
usual. If <b>untrusted</b> is used, clients that connect
using this authorization will be considered untrusted and
prevented from stealing or tampering with data belonging to
trusted clients. See the SECURITY extension specification
for full details on the restrictions imposed on untrusted
clients. The default is <b>untrusted</b>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>timeout</b> option specifies how long in seconds this
authorization will be valid. If the authorization remains
unused (no clients are connected with it) for longer than
this time period, the server purges the authorization, and
future attempts to connect using it will fail. Note that the
purging done by the server does <b>not</b> delete the
authorization entry from the authorization file. The default
timeout is 60 seconds.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>group</b> option specifies the application group that
clients connecting with this authorization should belong to.
See the application group extension specification for more
details. The default is to not belong to an application
group.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">The <b>data</b>
option specifies data that the server should use to generate
the authorization. Note that this is <b>not</b> the same
data that gets written to the authorization file. The
interpretation of this data depends on the authorization
protocol. The <i>hexdata</i> is in the same format as the
<i>hexkey</i> described in the add command. The default is
to send no data.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>[n]extract</b> <i>filename
displayname...</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Authorization entries for each
of the specified displays are written to the indicated file.
If the <i>nextract</i> command is used, the entries are
written in a numeric format suitable for non-binary
transmission (such as secure electronic mail). The extracted
entries can be read back in using the <i>merge</i> and
<i>nmerge</i> commands. If the filename consists of just a
single dash, the entries will be written to the standard
output.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>[n]list</b>
[<i>displayname</i>...]</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Authorization entries for each
of the specified displays (or all if no displays are named)
are printed on the standard output. If the <i>nlist</i>
command is used, entries will be shown in the numeric format
used by the <i>nextract</i> command; otherwise, they are
shown in a textual format. Key data is always displayed in
the hexadecimal format given in the description of the
<i>add</i> command.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>[n]merge</b>
[<i>filename</i>...]</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Authorization entries are read
from the specified files and are merged into the
authorization database, superseding any matching existing
entries. If the <i>nmerge</i> command is used, the numeric
format given in the description of the <i>extract</i>
command is used. If a filename consists of just a single
dash, the standard input will be read if it hasn&rsquo;t
been read before.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>remove</b>
<i>displayname</i>...</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Authorization entries matching
the specified displays are removed from the authority
file.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>source</b>
<i>filename</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">The specified file is treated
as a script containing <i>xauth</i> commands to execute.
Blank lines and lines beginning with a sharp sign (#) are
ignored. A single dash may be used to indicate the standard
input, if it hasn&rsquo;t already been read.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="6%"></col>
<col width="6%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>info</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Information describing the authorization file, whether
or not any changes have been made, and from where
<i>xauth</i> commands are being read is printed on the
standard output.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>exit</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>If any modifications have been made, the authority file
is written out (if allowed), and the program exits. An end
of file is treated as an implicit <i>exit</i> command.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>quit</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>The program exits, ignoring any modifications. This may
also be accomplished by pressing the interrupt
character.</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>help
[</b><i>string</i><b>]</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">A description of all commands
that begin with the given string (or all commands if no
string is given) is printed on the standard output.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%"></col>
<col width="11%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>?</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>A short list of the valid commands is printed on the
standard output.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading6">DISPLAY NAMES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Display names
for the <i>add</i>, <i>[n]extract</i>, <i>[n]list</i>,
<i>[n]merge</i>, and <i>remove</i> commands use the same
format as the DISPLAY environment variable and the common
<i>&minus;display</i> command line argument.
Display-specific information (such as the screen number) is
unnecessary and will be ignored. Same-machine connections
(such as local-host sockets, shared memory, and the Internet
Protocol hostname <i>localhost</i>) are referred to as
<i>hostname</i>/unix:<i>displaynumber</i> so that local
entries for different machines may be stored in one
authority file.</p>

<h2 id="heading7">EXAMPLE
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The most common
use for <i>xauth</i> is to extract the entry for the current
display, copy it to another machine, and merge it into the
user&rsquo;s authority file on the remote machine:</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">% xauth extract
&minus; $DISPLAY | ssh otherhost xauth merge &minus;</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
command contacts the server :0 to create an authorization
using the MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1 protocol. Clients that connect
with this authorization will be untrusted. <br/>
% xauth generate :0 .</p>

<h2 id="heading8">ENVIRONMENT
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This
<i>xauth</i> program uses the following environment
variables: <b><br/>
XAUTHORITY</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">to get the name of the
authority file to use if the <i>&minus;f</i> option
isn&rsquo;t used.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="6%"></col>
<col width="6%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>HOME</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>to get the user&rsquo;s home directory if XAUTHORITY
isn&rsquo;t defined.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading9">FILES
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>$HOME/.Xauthority</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">default authority file if
XAUTHORITY isn&rsquo;t defined.</p>

<h2 id="heading10">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>,
<a href="../man7/Xsecurity.7.xhtml"><em>Xsecurity</em>(7)</a>, <a href="../man1/xhost.1.xhtml"><em>xhost</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/xdm.1.xhtml"><em>xdm</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/startx.1.xhtml"><em>startx</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man3/Xau.3.xhtml"><em>Xau</em>(3)</a>.</p>

<h2 id="heading11">BUGS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Users that have
unsecure networks should take care to use encrypted file
transfer mechanisms to copy authorization entries between
machines. Similarly, the <i>MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1</i> protocol
is not very useful in unsecure environments. Sites that are
interested in additional security may need to use encrypted
authorization mechanisms such as Kerberos.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Spaces are
currently not allowed in the protocol name. Quoting could be
added for the truly perverse.</p>

<h2 id="heading12">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Jim Fulton, MIT
X Consortium</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
