<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:43 2012 -->
<title>XCMSDB</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XCMSDB</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">ENVIRONMENT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xcmsdb &minus;
Device Color Characterization utility for X Color Management
System</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xcmsdb</b> [
<b>&minus;query</b> ] [ <b>&minus;remove</b> ] [
<b>&minus;format 32</b>|<b>16</b>|<b>8</b> ] [
<i>filename</i> ]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>xcmsdb</i>
is used to load, query, or remove Device Color
Characterization data stored in properties on the root
window of the screen as specified in section 7, Device Color
Characterization, of the ICCCM. Device Color
Characterization data (also called the Device Profile) is an
integral part of Xlib&rsquo;s X Color Management System
(Xcms), necessary for proper conversion of color
specification between device-independent and
device-dependent forms. Xcms uses 3x3 matrices stored in the
XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_MATRICES property to convert color
specifications between CIEXYZ and RGB Intensity (XcmsRGBi,
also referred to as linear RGB). Xcms then uses display
gamma information stored in the XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_CORRECTION
property to convert color specifications between RGBi and
RGB device (XcmsRGB, also referred to as device RGB).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Note that Xcms
allows clients to register <i>function sets</i> in addition
to its built-in function set for CRT color monitors.
Additional function sets may store their device profile
information in other properties in function set specific
format. This utility is unaware of these non-standard
properties.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The ASCII
readable contents of <i>filename</i> (or the standard input
if no input file is given) are appropriately transformed for
storage in properties, provided the <b>&minus;query</b> or
<b>&minus;remove</b> options are not specified.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>xcmsdb</i>
program accepts the following options:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;query</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option attempts to read the XDCCC properties off
the screen&rsquo;s root window. If successful, it transforms
the data into a more readable format, then sends the data to
standard out.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;remove</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option attempts to remove the XDCCC properties on
the screen&rsquo;s root window.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;format
32</b>|<b>16</b>|<b>8</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies the property format
(32, 16, or 8 bits per entry) for the
XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_CORRECTION property. Precision of encoded
floating point values increases with the increase in bits
per entry. The default is 32 bits per entry.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/xprop.1.xhtml"><em>xprop</em>(1)</a>, Xlib
documentation</p>

<h2 id="heading6">ENVIRONMENT
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="71%"></col>
<col width="6%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>DISPLAY</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">to figure out which display and
screen to use.</p></td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Chuck Adams,
Tektronix Inc. Al Tabayoyon, SynChromatics Inc. (added
multi-visual support)</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
