<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:23:00 2012 -->
<title>Xdmx</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>Xdmx</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CONFIGURATION FILE GRAMMAR</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">CONFIGURATION FILE EXAMPLES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">FONT PATHS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">COMMAND-LINE EXAMPLES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading9">USING THE USB DEVICE DRIVERS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading10">KEYBOARD INITIALIZATION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading11">MULTIPLE CORE KEYBOARDS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading12">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading13">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Xdmx -
Distributed Multi-head X server</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Xdmx</b>
[:display] [option ...]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Xdmx</i> is
a proxy X server that uses one or more other X servers as
its display devices. It provides multi-head X functionality
for displays that might be located on different machines.
<i>Xdmx</i> functions as a front-end X server that acts as a
proxy to a set of back-end X servers. All of the visible
rendering is passed to the back-end X servers. Clients
connect to the <i>Xdmx</i> front-end, and everything appears
as it would in a regular multi-head configuration. If
Xinerama is enabled (e.g., with <b>+xinerama</b> on the
command line), the clients see a single large screen.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Xdmx</i>
communicates to the back-end X servers using the standard
X11 protocol, and standard and/or commonly available X
server extensions.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">In addition to
the normal X server options described in the
<i><a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a></i> manual page, <i>Xdmx</i> accepts the
following command line switches: <b><br/>
&minus;display</b> <i>display-name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This specifies the name(s) of
the back-end X server display(s) to connect to. This option
may be specified multiple times to connect to more than one
back-end display. The first is used as screen 0, the second
as screen 1, etc. If this option is omitted, the
<b>$DISPLAY</b> environment variable is used as the single
back-end X server display.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;xinput</b>
<i>input-source</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This specifies the source to
use for XInput extension devices. The choices are the same
as for <b>&minus;input</b> , described below, except that
core devices on backend servers cannot be treated as XInput
extension devices. (Although extension devices on backend
and console servers are supported as extension devices under
<i>Xdmx</i>).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;input</b>
<i>input-source</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This specifies the source to
use for the core input devices. The choices are: <b><br/>
dummy</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:29%;">A set of dummy core input
drivers are used. These never generate any input events.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;"><b>local</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:29%;">The raw keyboard and pointer
from the local computer are used. A comma-separated list of
driver names can be appended. For example, to select the
example Linux keyboard and PS/2 mouse driver use: <b>-input
local,kbd,ps2</b>. The following drivers have been
implemented for Linux: kbd, ms (a two-button Microsoft mouse
driver), ps2 (a PS/2 mouse driver), usb-mou (a USB mouse
driver), usb-kbd (a USB keyboard driver), and usb-oth (a USB
non-keyboard, non-mouse driver). Additional drivers may be
implemented in the future. Appropriate defaults will be used
if no comma-separated list is provided.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;"><i>display-name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:29%;">If the display-name is a
back-end server, then core input events are taken from the
server specified. Otherwise, a console window will be opened
on the specified display.</p>

<p style="margin-left:29%; margin-top: 1em">If the
<i>display-name</i> is followed by &quot;,xi&quot; then
XInput extension devices on the display will be used as
<i>Xdmx</i> XInput extension devices. If the
<i>display-name</i> is followed by &quot;,noxi&quot; then
XInput extension devices on the display will <b>not</b> be
used as <i>Xdmx</i> XInput extension devices. Currently, the
default is &quot;,xi&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:29%; margin-top: 1em">If the
<i>display-name</i> is followed by &quot;,console&quot; and
the <i>display-name</i> refers to a display that is used as
a backend display, then a console window will be opened on
that display <b>and</b> that display will be treated as a
backend display. Otherwise (or if &quot;,noconsole&quot; is
used), the display will be treated purely as a backend or a
console display, as described above.</p>

<p style="margin-left:29%; margin-top: 1em">If the
<i>display-name</i> is followed by &quot;,windows&quot;,
then outlines of the windows on the backend will be
displayed inside the console window. Otherwise (or if
&quot;,nowindows&quot; is used), the console window will not
display the outlines of backend windows. (This option only
applies to console input.)</p>

<p style="margin-left:29%; margin-top: 1em">If the
<i>display-name</i> is followed by &quot;,xkb&quot;, then
the next 1 to 3 comma-separated parameters will specify the
keycodes, symbols, and geometry of the keyboard for this
input device. For example, &quot;,xkb,xfree86,pc104&quot;
will specify that the &quot;xfree86&quot; keycodes and the
&quot;pc104&quot; symbols should be used to initialize the
keyboard. For an SGI keyboard,
&quot;,xkb,sgi/indy(pc102)&quot; might be useful. A list of
keycodes, symbols, and geometries can be found in
<i>/usr/share/X11/xkb</i>. Use of
keycodes, symbols and geometries for XKB configuration is
deprecated in favor of the rules, layout, model, variant and
options settings available via the -param command line
switch. If this option is not specified, the input device
will be queried, perhaps using the XKEYBOARD extension.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">If this option
isn&rsquo;t specified, the default input source is the first
back-end server (the one used for screen 0). The console
window shows the layout of the back-end display(s) and
pointer movements and key presses within the console window
will be used as core input devices.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">Several special
function keys are active, depending on the input source:</p>


<p style="margin-left:34%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Ctrl-Alt-q</b>
will terminate the <i>Xdmx</i> server in all modes.</p>


<p style="margin-left:34%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Ctrl-Alt-g</b>
will toggle a server grab in console mode (a special cursor,
currently a spider, is used to indicate an active server
grab).</p>


<p style="margin-left:34%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Ctrl-Alt-f</b>
will toggle fine-grain motion in console mode (a special
cursor, currently a cross hair, is used to indicate this
mode). If this mode is combined with a server grab, then the
cursor will have 4 lines instead of only 2.</p>


<p style="margin-left:34%; margin-top: 1em"><b>Ctrl-Alt-F1</b>
through <b>Ctrl-Alt-F12</b> will switch to another VC in
local (raw) mode.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-shadowfb</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option turns on (legacy)
support for the shadow frame buffer.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-noshadowfb</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option turns off (legacy)
support for the shadow frame buffer. Note that this option
has been deprecated and will be removed in the next
release.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-nomulticursor</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option turns off support
for displaying multiple cursors on overlapped back-end
displays. This option is available for testing and
benchmarking purposes.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-fontpath</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option sets the
<i>Xdmx</i> server&rsquo;s default font path. This option
can be specified multiple times to accommodate multiple font
paths. See the <b>FONT PATHS</b> section below for very
important information regarding setting the default font
path.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-configfile</b>
<i>filename</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specify the configuration file
that should be read. Note that if the <b>&minus;display</b>
command-line option is used, then the configuration file
will be ignored.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-config</b> <i>name</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specify a configuration to use.
The <i>name</i> will be the name following the
<b>virtual</b> keyword in the configuration file.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-stat</b> <i>interval
screens</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option enables the display
of performance statistics. The interval is in seconds. The
screens is a count of the number of back-end screens for
which data is printed each interval. Specifying 0 for
screens will display data for all screens.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">For each
screen, the following information is printed: the screen
number, an absolute count of the number of XSync() calls
made (SyncCount), the rate of these calls during the
previous interval (Sync/s), the average round-trip time (in
microseconds) of the last 10 XSync() calls (avSync), the
maximum round-trip time (in microseconds) of the last 10
XSync calls (mxSync), the average number of XSync() requests
that were pending but not yet processed for each of the last
10 processed XSync() calls, the maximum number of XSync()
requests that were pending but not yet processed for each of
the last 10 processed XSync() calls, and a histogram showing
the distribution of the times of all of the XSync() calls
that were made during the previous interval.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">(The length of
the moving average and the number and value of histogram
bins are configurable at compile time in the
<b>dmxstat.h</b> header file.)</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-syncbatch</b>
<i>interval</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option sets the
<i>interval</i> in milliseconds for XSync() batching. An
<i>interval</i> less than or equal to 0 will disable XSync()
batching. The default <i>interval</i> is 100 ms.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-nooffscreenopt</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option disables the
offscreen optimization. Since the lazy window creation
optimization requires the offscreen optimization to be
enabled, this option will also disable the lazy window
creation optimization.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-nowindowopt</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option disables the lazy
window creation optimization.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-nosubdivprims</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option disables the
primitive subdivision optimization.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-noxkb</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Disable use of the XKB extension for communication with
the back end displays. (Combine with <b>-kb</b> to disable
all use of XKB.)</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-depth</b> <i>int</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option sets the root
window&rsquo;s default depth. When choosing a default visual
from those available on the back-end X server, the first
visual with that matches the depth specified is used.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">This option can
be combined with the <b>-cc</b> option, which specifies the
default color visual class, to force the use of a specific
depth and color class for the root window.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-norender</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option disables the RENDER
extension.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-noglxproxy</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option disables GLX proxy
-- the build-in GLX extension implementation that is DMX
aware.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-noglxswapgroup</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option disables the swap
group and swap barrier extensions in GLX proxy.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-glxsyncswap</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option enables
synchronization after a swap buffers call by waiting until
all X protocol has been processed. When a client issues a
glXSwapBuffers request, Xdmx relays that request to each
back-end X server, and those requests are buffered along
with all other protocol requests. However, in systems that
have large network buffers, this buffering can lead to the
set of back-end X servers handling the swap buffers request
asynchronously. With this option, an XSync() request is
issued to each back-end X server after sending the swap
buffers request. The XSync() requests will flush all
buffered protocol (including the swap buffers requests) and
wait until the back-end X servers have processed those
requests before continuing. This option does not wait until
all GL commands have been processed so there might be
previously issued commands that are still being processed in
the GL pipe when the XSync() request returns. See the
<b>-glxfinishswap</b> option below if Xdmx should wait until
the GL commands have been processed.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-glxfinishswap</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option enables
synchronization after a swap buffers call by waiting until
all GL commands have been completed. It is similar to the
<b>-glxsyncswap</b> option above; however, instead of
issuing an XSync(), it issues a glFinish() request to each
back-end X server after sending the swap buffers requests.
The glFinish() request will flush all buffered protocol
requests, process both X and GL requests, and wait until all
previously called GL commands are complete before
returning.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-ignorebadfontpaths</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option ignores font paths
that are not available on all back-end servers by removing
the bad font path(s) from the default font path list. If no
valid font paths are left after removing the bad paths, an
error to that effect is printed in the log.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-addremovescreens</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option enables the dynamic
addition and removal of screens, which is disabled by
default. Note that GLXProxy and Render do not yet support
dynamic addition and removal of screens, and must be
disabled via the <b>-noglxproxy</b> and <b>-norender</b>
command line options described above.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-param</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option specifies parameters on the command line.
Currently, only parameters dealing with XKEYBOARD
configuration are supported. These parameters apply only to
the core keyboard. Parameter values are
installation-dependent. Please see
<i>/usr/share/X11/xkb</i> or a similar
directory for complete information.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:23%;"><b>XkbRules</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:35%;">Defaults to &quot;evdev&quot;.
Other values may include &quot;sgi&quot; and
&quot;sun&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;"><b>XkbModel</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:35%;">Defaults to &quot;pc105&quot;.
When used with &quot;base&quot; rules, other values may
include &quot;pc102&quot;, &quot;pc104&quot;,
&quot;microsoft&quot;, and many others. When used with
&quot;sun&quot; rules, other values may include
&quot;type4&quot; and &quot;type5&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;"><b>XkbLayout</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:35%;">Defaults to &quot;us&quot;.
Other country codes and &quot;dvorak&quot; are usually
available.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;"><b>XkbVariant</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:35%;">Defaults to &quot;&quot;.</p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;"><b>XkbOptions</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:35%;">Defaults to &quot;&quot;.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">CONFIGURATION FILE GRAMMAR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
words and tokens are reserved:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;"><b>virtual display wall option
param { } ; #</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Comments start
with a <b>#</b> mark and extend to the end of the line. They
may appear anywhere. If a configuration file is read into
<b>xdmxconfig</b>, the comments in that file will be
preserved, but will not be editable.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The grammar is
as follows:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">virtual-list ::= [ virtual-list
] | virtual</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">virtual ::=
<b>virtual</b> [ name ] [ dim ] <b>{</b> dw-list
<b>}</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">dw-list ::= [
dw-list ] | dw</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">dw ::= display
| wall | option</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">display ::=
<b>display</b> name [ geometry ] [ / geometry ] [ origin ]
<b>;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">wall ::=
<b>wall</b> [ dim ] [ dim ] name-list <b>;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">option ::=
<b>option</b> name-list <b>;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">param ::=
<b>param</b> name-list <b>;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">param ::=
<b>param {</b> param-list <b>}</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">param-list ::=
[ param-list ] | name-list <b>;</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">name-list ::= [
name-list ] | name</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">name ::= string
| double-quoted-string</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">dim ::= integer
<b>x</b> integer</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">geometry ::= [
integer <b>x</b> integer ] [ signed-integer signed-integer
]</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">origin ::=
<b>@</b> integer <b>x</b> integer</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The name
following <b>virtual</b> is used as an identifier for the
configuration, and may be passed to <b>Xdmx</b> using the
<b>&minus;config</b> command line option. The name of a
display should be standard X display name, although no
checking is performed (e.g., &quot;machine:0&quot;).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">For names,
double quotes are optional unless the name is reserved or
contains spaces.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The first
dimension following <b>wall</b> is the dimension for tiling
(e.g., 2x4 or 4x4). The second dimension following
<b>wall</b> is the dimension of each display in the wall
(e.g., 1280x1024).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The first
geometry following <b>display</b> is the geometry of the
screen window on the backend server. The second geometry,
which is always preceeded by a slash, is the geometry of the
root window. By default, the root window has the same
geometry as the screen window.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<b>option</b> line can be used to specify any command-line
options (e.g., <b>&minus;input</b>). (It cannot be used to
specify the name of the front-end display.) The option line
is processed once at server startup, just line command line
options. This behavior may be unexpected.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">CONFIGURATION FILE EXAMPLES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Two displays
being used for a desktop may be specified in any of the
following formats:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">virtual example0 { <br/>
display d0:0 1280x1024 @0x0; <br/>
display d1:0 1280x1024 @1280x0; <br/>
}</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">virtual
example1 { <br/>
display d0:0 1280x1024; <br/>
display d1:0 @1280x0; <br/>
}</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">virtual
example2 { <br/>
display &quot;d0:0&quot;; <br/>
display &quot;d1:0&quot; @1280x0; <br/>
}</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%; margin-top: 1em">virtual
example3 { wall 2x1 d0:0 d1:0; }</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">A 4x4 wall of 16 total displays
could be specified as follows (if no tiling dimension is
specified, an approximate square is used):</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">virtual example4 { <br/>
wall d0:0 d1:0 d2:0 d3:0 <br/>
d4:0 d5:0 d6:0 d7:0 <br/>
d8:0 d9:0 da:0 db:0 <br/>
dc:0 dd:0 de:0 df:0; <br/>
}</p>

<h2 id="heading7">FONT PATHS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The font path
used by the <i>Xdmx</i> front-end server will be propagated
to each back-end server,which requires that each back-end
server have access to the exact same font paths as the
front-end server. This can be most easily handled by either
using a font server (e.g., xfs) or by remotely mounting the
font paths on each back-end server, and then setting the
<i>Xdmx</i> server&rsquo;s default font path with the -I
&quot;-fontpath&quot; command line option described
above.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">For example, if
you specify a font path with the following command line:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Xdmx :1 -display d0:0 -fontpath
/usr/fonts/75dpi/ -fontpath /usr/fonts/Type1/ +xinerama</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">Then, /usr/fonts/75dpi/ and
/usr/fonts/Type1/ must be valid font paths on the
<i>Xdmx</i> server and all back-end server, which is d0 in
this example.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Font servers
can also be specified with the <i>-fontpath</i> option. For
example, let&rsquo;s assume that a properly configured font
server is running on host d0. Then, the following command
line</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Xdmx :1 -display d0:0 -display
d1:0 -fontpath tcp/d0:7100 +xinerama</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">will initialize the front-end
<i>Xdmx</i> server and each of the back-end servers to use
the font server on d0.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Some fonts
might not be supported by either the front-end or the
back-end servers. For example, let&rsquo;s assume the
front-end <i>Xdmx</i> server includes support Type1 fonts,
but one of the back-end servers does not. Let&rsquo;s also
assume that the default font path for <i>Xdmx</i> includes
Type1 fonts in its font path. Then, when <i>Xdmx</i>
initializes the default font path to load the default font,
the font path that includes Type1 fonts (along with the
other default font paths that are used by the <i>Xdmx</i>
server) is sent to the back-end server that cannot handle
Type1 fonts. That back-end server then rejects the font path
and sends an error back to the <i>Xdmx</i> server.
<i>Xdmx</i> then prints an error message and exits because
it failed to set the default font path and was unable load
the default font.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">To fix this
error, the offending font path must be removed from the
default font path by using a different <i>-fontpath</i>
command line option.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>-fontpath</i> option can also be added to the
configuration file as described above.</p>

<h2 id="heading8">COMMAND-LINE EXAMPLES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The back-end
machines are d0 and d1, core input is from the pointer and
keyboard attached to d0, clients will refer to :1 when
opening windows:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Xdmx :1 -display d0:0 -display
d1:0 +xinerama</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">As above,
except with core input from d1:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Xdmx :1 -display d0:0 -display
d1:0 -input d1:0 +xinerama</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">As above,
except with core input from a console window on the local
display:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Xdmx :1 -display d0:0 -display
d1:0 -input :0 +xinerama</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">As above,
except with core input from the local keyboard and
mouse:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Xdmx :1 -display d0:0 -display
d1:0 -input local,kbd,ps2 +xinerama</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">Note that local input can be
used under Linux while another X session is running on :0
(assuming the user can access the Linux console tty and
mouse devices): a new (blank) VC will be used for keyboard
input on the local machine and the Ctrl-Alt-F* sequence will
be available to change to another VC (possibly back to
another X session running on the local machine). Using
Ctrl-Alt-Backspace on the blank VC will terminate the Xdmx
session and return to the original VC.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This example
uses the configuration file shown in the previous
section:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Xdmx :1 -input :0 +xinerama
-configfile filename -config example2</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">With this configuration file
line:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">option -input :0 +xinerama;</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;">the command line can be
shortened to:</p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Xdmx :1 -configfile filename
-config example2</p>

<h2 id="heading9">USING THE USB DEVICE DRIVERS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The USB device
drivers use the devices called <i>/dev/input/event0</i>,
<i>/dev/input/event1</i>, etc. under Linux. These devices
are driven using the <i>evdev</i> Linux kernel module, which
is part of the hid suite. Please note that if you load the
<i>mousedev</i> or <i>kbddev</i> Linux kernel modules, then
USB devices will appear as core Linux input devices and you
will not be able to select between using the device only as
an <i>Xdmx</i> core device or an <i>Xdmx</i> XInput
extension device. Further, you may be unable to unload the
<i>mousedev</i> Linux kernel module if <i>XFree86</i> is
configured to use <i>/dev/input/mice</i> as an input device
(this is quite helpful for laptop users and is set up by
default under some Linux distributions, but should be
changed if USB devices are to be used with <i>Xdmx</i>).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The USB device
drivers search through the Linux devices for the first
mouse, keyboard, or non-mouse-non-keyboard Linux device and
use that device.</p>

<h2 id="heading10">KEYBOARD INITIALIZATION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If <i>Xdmx</i>
was invoked with <i>&minus;xkb</i> or was <b>not</b>
compiled to use the XKEYBOARD extension, then a keyboard on
a backend or console will be initialized using the map that
the host X server provides.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If the
XKEYBOARD extension is used for both <i>Xdmx</i> and the
host X server for the keyboard (i.e., the backend or console
X server), then the type of the keyboard will be obtained
from the host X server and the keyboard under <i>Xdmx</i>
will be initialized with that information. Otherwise, the
default type of keyboard will be initialized. In both cases,
the map from the host X server will <b>not</b> be used. This
means that different initial behavior may be noted with and
without XKEYBOARD. Consistent and expected results will be
obtained by running XKEYBOARD on all servers and by avoiding
the use of <i>xmodmap</i> on the backend or console X
servers prior to starting <i>Xdmx</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If
<i>&minus;xkbmap</i> is specified on the <i>Xdmx</i> command
line, then that map will currently be used for all
keyboards.</p>

<h2 id="heading11">MULTIPLE CORE KEYBOARDS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">X was not
designed to support multiple core keyboards. However,
<i>Xdmx</i> provides some support for multiple core
keyboards. Best results will be obtained if all of the
keyboards are of the same type and are using the same
keyboard map. Because the X server passes raw key code
information to the X client, key symbols for keyboards with
different key maps would be different if the key code for
each keyboard was sent without translation to the client.
Therefore, <i>Xdmx</i> will attempt to translate the key
code from a core keyboard to the key code for the key with
the same key symbol of the <b>first</b> core keyboard that
was loaded. If the key symbol appears in both maps, the
results will be expected. Otherwise, the second core
keyboard will return a NoSymbol key symbol for some keys
that would have been translated if it was the first core
keyboard.</p>

<h2 id="heading12">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man3/DMX.3.xhtml"><em>DMX</em>(3)</a>,
<a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>, <a href="../man1/Xserver.1.xhtml"><em>Xserver</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/xdmxconfig.1.xhtml"><em>xdmxconfig</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man1/vdltodmx.1.xhtml"><em>vdltodmx</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/xfs.1.xhtml"><em>xfs</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/xkbcomp.1.xhtml"><em>xkbcomp</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man7/xkeyboard-config.7.xhtml"><em>xkeyboard-config</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading13">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Kevin E. Martin
<i>&lt;kem@redhat.com&gt;,</i> David H. Dawes
<i>&lt;dawes@xfree86.org&gt;,</i> and Rickard E. (Rik) Faith
<i>&lt;faith@redhat.com&gt;</i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Portions of
<i>Xdmx</i> are based on code from The XFree86 Project
(<i>http://www.xfree86.org</i>) and X.Org
(<i>http://www.x.org</i>).</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
