<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:55 2012 -->
<title>xdmxconfig</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>xdmxconfig</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">BUGS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">SEE ALSO</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xdmxconfig - a
graphical configuration tool for Xdmx configuration
files</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xdmxconfig</b>
[filename]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>xdmxconfig</i>
reads, edits, and writes configuration files for the Xdmx
server. The grammar for the configuration file is specified
in the <a href="../man1/Xdmx.1.xhtml"><em>Xdmx</em>(1)</a> manual page.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">To start from
scratch, create a &quot;New Global&quot; and specify the
name and overall dimensions for the configuration. Then use
&quot;New Display&quot; to enter more displays.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If there is
more than one configuration, the configuration name button
will bring up a selection menu.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">In the
right-hand pannel, the left mouse button will move the
highlighted display at &quot;tool resolution&quot;; the
middle mouse button will move the highlighted display by a
single pixel (at &quot;wall resolution&quot;); and the right
mouse button will bring up a menu allowing the highlighted
display to be edited or deleted. The arrow keys will also
move the highlighted display by a single pixel.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">BUGS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Currently,
entries with the <b>wall</b> keyword are not editable, but
will be preserved in the new output file. The tool will quit
when requested by the user, even if a configuration file has
not been written out (i.e., without warning). The menu
interaction should be improved (menu entries that
don&rsquo;t currently work should be greyed-out, for
example). The Help button does not work.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man1/Xdmx.1.xhtml"><em>Xdmx</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man1/vdltodmx.1.xhtml"><em>vdltodmx</em>(1)</a></p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
