<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:48 2012 -->
<title>XEV</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XEV</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xev - print
contents of X events</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xev</b>
[&minus;display <i>displayname</i>] [&minus;geometry
<i>geom</i>] [&minus;bw <i>pixels</i>] [&minus;bs
<i>{NotUseful,WhenMapped,Always}</i>] [&minus;id
<i>windowid</i>] [&minus;root] [&minus;s] [&minus;name
<i>string</i>] [&minus;rv]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Xev</i>
creates a window and then asks the X server to send it
<i>events</i> whenever anything happens to the window (such
as it being moved, resized, typed in, clicked in, etc.). You
can also attach it to an existing window. It is useful for
seeing what causes events to occur and to display the
information that they contain; it is essentially a debugging
and development tool, and should not be needed in normal
usage.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;display</b>
<i>display</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies the X
server to contact.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;geometry</b>
<i>geom</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies the size
and/or location of the window, if a window is to be
created.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;bw</b>
<i>pixels</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies the
border width for the window.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;bs</b>
<i>{NotUseful,WhenMapped,Always}</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies what kind
of backing store to give the window. The default is
NotUseful. Backing store refers to the the pixels saved
off-screen when the X server maintains the contents of a
window; NotUseful means that the xev process will redraw its
contents itself, as necessary.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;id</b>
<i>windowid</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies that the
window with the given id should be monitored, instead of
creating a new window.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="7%"></col>
<col width="5%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;root</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option specifies that the root window should be
monitored, instead of creating a new window.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;s</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option specifies that save-unders should be enabled
on the window. Save unders are similar to backing store, but
they refer rather to the saving of pixels off-screen when
the current window obscures other windows. Save unders are
only advisory, and are normally set for popup dialogs and
other transient windows.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;name</b>
<i>string</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies the name
to assign to the created window.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="4%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;rv</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option specifies that the window should be in
reverse video.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>,
<a href="../man1/xwininfo.1.xhtml"><em>xwininfo</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man1/xdpyinfo.1.xhtml"><em>xdpyinfo</em>(1)</a>, Xlib Programmers Manual, X
Protocol Specification <br/>
See <i><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></i> for a full statement of rights and
permissions.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Jim Fulton, MIT
X Consortium</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
