<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:54 2012 -->
<title>XKBCOMP</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XKBCOMP</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">COPYRIGHT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xkbcomp &minus;
compile XKB keyboard description</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xkbcomp</b>
[option] source [ destination ]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>xkbcomp</i> keymap compiler converts a description of an
XKB keymap into one of several output formats. The most
common use for xkbcomp is to create a compiled keymap file
(.xkm extension) which can be read directly by XKB-capable X
servers or utilities. The keymap compiler can also produce C
header files or XKB source files. The C header files
produced by xkbcomp can be included by X servers or
utilities that need a built-in default keymap. The XKB
source files produced by <i>xkbcomp</i> are fully resolved
and can be used to verify that the files which typically
make up an XKB keymap are merged correctly or to create a
single file which contains a complete description of the
keymap.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>source</i> may specify an X display, or an <i>.xkb</i> or
<i>.xkm</i> file; unless explicitly specified, the format of
<i>destination</i> depends on the format of the source.
Compiling a <i>.xkb</i> (keymap source) file generates a
<i>.xkm</i> (compiled keymap file) by default. If the source
is a <i>.xkm</i> file or an X display, <i>xkbcomp</i>
generates a keymap source file by default.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If the
<i>destination</i> is an X display, the keymap for the
display is updated with the compiled keymap.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The name of the
<i>destination</i> is usually computed from the name of the
source, with the extension replaced as appropriate. When
compiling a single map from a file which contains several
maps, <i>xkbcomp</i> constructs the destination file name by
appending an appropriate extension to the name of the map to
be used.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;a</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Show all keyboard information,
reporting implicit or derived information as a comment. Only
affects <i>.xkb</i> format output.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;C</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Produce a C header file as output (.h extension).</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;dflts</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Compute defaults for any missing components, such as key
names.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;I</b><i>dir</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Specifies top-level directories to be searched for files
included by the keymap description. After all directories
specified by &minus;I options have been searched, the
current directory and finally, the default xkb directory
(usually /usr/lib/X11/xkb) will be
searched.</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:23%; margin-top: 1em">To prevent the
current and default directories from being searched, use the
&minus;I option alone (i.e. without a directory), before any
&minus;I options that specify the directories you do want
searched.</p>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;i&nbsp;</b><i>deviceid</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">If <i>source</i> or
<i>destination</i> is a valid X display, load the keymap
from/into the device with the specified ID (not name).</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;l</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>List maps that specify the <i>map</i> pattern in any
files listed on the command line (not implemented yet).</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;m&nbsp;</b><i>name</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Specifies a map to be compiled from an file with
multiple entries.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;merge</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Merge the compiled information with the map from the
server (not implemented yet).</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;o&nbsp;</b><i>name</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Specifies a name for the generated output file. The
default is the name of the source file with an appropriate
extension for the output format.</p></td></tr>
</table>


<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;opt&nbsp;</b><i>parts</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Specifies a list of optional
parts. Compilation errors in any optional parts are not
fatal. Parts may consist of any combination of the letters
<i>c</i>, <i>g</i>,<i>k</i>,<i>s</i>,<i>t</i> which specify
the compatibility map, geometry, keycodes, symbols and
types, respectively.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-R</b><i>dir</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Specifies the root directory for relative path
names.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-synch</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Force synchronization for X requests.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-version</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Print version number.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;w&nbsp;</b><i>lvl</i></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Controls the reporting of warnings during compilation. A
warning level of 0 disables all warnings; a warning level of
10 enables them all.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;xkb</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Generate a source description of the keyboard as output
(.xkb extension).</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;xkm</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Generate a compiled keymap file as output (.xkm
extension).</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading6">COPYRIGHT
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Copyright 1994,
Silicon Graphics Computer Systems and X Consortium, Inc.
<br/>
See <i><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></i> for a full statement of rights and
permissions.</p>

<h2 id="heading7">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Erik Fortune,
Silicon Graphics</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
