<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:23:05 2012 -->
<title>XKILL</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XKILL</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">CAVEATS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">XDEFAULTS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xkill - kill a
client by its X resource</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xkill</b>
[&minus;display <i>displayname</i>] [&minus;id
<i>resource</i>] [&minus;button number] [&minus;frame]
[&minus;all]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Xkill</i> is
a utility for forcing the X server to close connections to
clients. This program is very dangerous, but is useful for
aborting programs that have displayed undesired windows on a
user&rsquo;s screen. If no resource identifier is given with
<i>-id</i>, <i>xkill</i> will display a special cursor as a
prompt for the user to select a window to be killed. If a
pointer button is pressed over a non-root window, the server
will close its connection to the client that created the
window.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;display</b>
<i>displayname</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies the name
of the X server to contact.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;id</b>
<i>resource</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies the X
identifier for the resource whose creator is to be aborted.
If no resource is specified, <i>xkill</i> will display a
special cursor with which you should select a window to be
kill.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;button</b>
<i>number</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies the
number of pointer button that should be used in selecting a
window to kill. If the word &quot;any&quot; is specified,
any button on the pointer may be used. By default, the first
button in the pointer map (which is usually the leftmost
button) is used.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;all</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that all clients with top-level
windows on the screen should be killed. <i>Xkill</i> will
ask you to select the root window with each of the currently
defined buttons to give you several chances to abort. Use of
this option is highly discouraged.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;frame</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that xkill should ignore the
standard conventions for finding top-level client windows
(which are typically nested inside a window manager window),
and simply believe that you want to kill direct children of
the root.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading5">CAVEATS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This command
does not provide any warranty that the application whose
connection to the X server is closed will abort nicely, or
even abort at all. All this command does is to close the
connection to the X server. Many existing applications do
indeed abort when their connection to the X server is
closed, but some can choose to continue.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">XDEFAULTS
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>Button</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Specifies a specific pointer
button number or the word &quot;any&quot; to use when
selecting windows.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading7">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>,
<a href="../man1/xwininfo.1.xhtml"><em>xwininfo</em>(1)</a>, XKillClient and XGetPointerMapping in the Xlib
Programmers Manual, KillClient in the X Protocol
Specification</p>

<h2 id="heading8">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Jim Fulton, MIT
X Consortium <br/>
Dana Chee, Bellcore</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
