<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:52 2012 -->
<title>XMODMAP</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XMODMAP</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">EXPRESSION GRAMMAR</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">EXAMPLES</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">ENVIRONMENT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading9">BUGS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading10">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xmodmap -
utility for modifying keymaps and pointer button mappings in
X</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xmodmap</b>
[-options ...] [filename]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>xmodmap</i> program is used to edit and display the
keyboard <i>modifier map</i> and <i>keymap table</i> that
are used by client applications to convert event keycodes
into keysyms. It is usually run from the user&rsquo;s
session startup script to configure the keyboard according
to personal tastes.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The following
options may be used with <i>xmodmap</i>: <b><br/>
&minus;display</b> <i>display</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies the host
and display to use.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="7%"></col>
<col width="5%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;help</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that a brief description of the
command line arguments should be printed on the standard
error channel. This will be done whenever an unhandled
argument is given to <i>xmodmap.</i></p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;grammar</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option indicates that a
help message describing the expression grammar used in files
and with &minus;e expressions should be printed on the
standard error.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;verbose</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option indicates that
<i>xmodmap</i> should print logging information as it parses
its input.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="3%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;quiet</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option turns off the verbose logging. This is the
default.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;n</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that <i>xmodmap</i> should not
change the mappings, but should display what it would do,
like <i><a href="../man1/make.1.xhtml"><em>make</em>(1)</a></i> does when given this option.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;e</b>
<i>expression</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This option specifies an
expression to be executed. Any number of expressions may be
specified from the command line.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="6%"></col>
<col width="6%" class="center"></col>
<col width="77%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;pm</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that the current modifier map
should be printed on the standard output. This is the
default mode of operation if no other mode options are
specified.</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;pk</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that the current keymap table
should be printed on the standard output.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;pke</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that the current keymap table
should be printed on the standard output in the form of
expressions that can be fed back to <i>xmodmap</i>.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;pp</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This option indicates that the current pointer map
should be printed on the standard output.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>A lone dash means that the standard input should be used
as the input file.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>filename</i> specifies a file containing <i>xmodmap</i>
expressions to be executed. This file is usually kept in the
user&rsquo;s home directory with a name like
<i>.xmodmaprc</i>.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">EXPRESSION GRAMMAR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>xmodmap</i> program reads a list of expressions and
parses them all before attempting to execute any of them.
This makes it possible to refer to keysyms that are being
redefined in a natural way without having to worry as much
about name conflicts.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The list of
keysym names may be found in the header file
<i>&lt;X11/keysymdef.h&gt;</i> (without the <i>XK_</i>
prefix), supplemented by the keysym database
<i>/usr/share/X11/XKeysymDB</i>.
Keysyms matching Unicode characters may be specified as
&quot;U0020&quot; to &quot;U007E&quot; and &quot;U00A0&quot;
to &quot;U10FFFF&quot; for all possible Unicode characters.
<b><br/>
keycode</b> <i>NUMBER</i> <b>=</b> <i>KEYSYMNAME ...</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">The list of keysyms is assigned
to the indicated keycode (which may be specified in decimal,
hex or octal and can be determined by running the <i>xev</i>
program). Up to eight keysyms may be attached to a key,
however the last four are not used in any major X server
implementation. The first keysym is used when no modifier
key is pressed in conjunction with this key, the second with
Shift, the third when the Mode_switch key is used with this
key and the fourth when both the Mode_switch and Shift keys
are used.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>keycode any =</b>
<i>KEYSYMNAME ...</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">If no existing key has the
specified list of keysyms assigned to it, a spare key on the
keyboard is selected and the keysyms are assigned to it. The
list of keysyms may be specified in decimal, hex or
octal.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>keysym</b> <i>KEYSYMNAME</i>
<b>=</b> <i>KEYSYMNAME ...</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">The <i>KEYSYMNAME</i> on the
left hand side is translated into matching keycodes used to
perform the corresponding set of <b>keycode</b> expressions.
Note that if the same keysym is bound to multiple keys, the
expression is executed for each matching keycode.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>clear</b>
<i>MODIFIERNAME</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This removes all entries in the
modifier map for the given modifier, where valid name are:
<b>Shift</b>, <b>Lock</b>, <b>Control</b>, <b>Mod1</b>,
<b>Mod2</b>, <b>Mod3</b>, <b>Mod4</b>, and <b>Mod5</b> (case
does not matter in modifier names, although it does matter
for all other names). For example, &lsquo;&lsquo;clear
Lock&rsquo;&rsquo; will remove all any keys that were bound
to the shift lock modifier.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>add</b> <i>MODIFIERNAME</i>
<b>=</b> <i>KEYSYMNAME ...</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This adds all keys containing
the given keysyms to the indicated modifier map. The keysym
names are evaluated after all input expressions are read to
make it easy to write expressions to swap keys (see the
EXAMPLES section).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>remove</b>
<i>MODIFIERNAME</i> <b>=</b> <i>KEYSYMNAME ...</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This removes all keys
containing the given keysyms from the indicated modifier
map. Unlike <b>add,</b> the keysym names are evaluated as
the line is read in. This allows you to remove keys from a
modifier without having to worry about whether or not they
have been reassigned.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>pointer = default</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This sets the pointer map back
to its default settings (button 1 generates a code of 1,
button 2 generates a 2, etc.).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>pointer =</b> <i>NUMBER
...</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">This sets the pointer map to
contain the indicated button codes. The list always starts
with the first physical button. Setting a button code to 0
disables events from that button.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Lines that
begin with an exclamation point (!) are taken as
comments.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">If you want to
change the binding of a modifier key, you must also remove
it from the appropriate modifier map.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">EXAMPLES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Many pointers
are designed such that the first button is pressed using the
index finger of the right hand. People who are left-handed
frequently find that it is more comfortable to reverse the
button codes that get generated so that the primary button
is pressed using the index finger of the left hand. This
could be done on a 3 button pointer as follows:</p>

<pre style="margin-left:11%;">%  xmodmap -e &quot;pointer = 3 2 1&quot;</pre>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Many
applications support the notion of Meta keys (similar to
Control keys except that Meta is held down instead of
Control). However, some servers do not have a Meta keysym in
the default keymap table, so one needs to be added by hand.
The following command will attach Meta to the Multi-language
key (sometimes labeled Compose Character). It also takes
advantage of the fact that applications that need a Meta key
simply need to get the keycode and don&rsquo;t require the
keysym to be in the first column of the keymap table. This
means that applications that are looking for a Multi_key
(including the default modifier map) won&rsquo;t notice any
change.</p>

<pre style="margin-left:11%;">%  xmodmap -e &quot;keysym Multi_key = Multi_key Meta_L&quot;</pre>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Similarly, some
keyboards have an Alt key but no Meta key. In that case the
following may be useful:</p>

<pre style="margin-left:11%;">%  xmodmap -e &quot;keysym Alt_L = Meta_L Alt_L&quot;</pre>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">One of the more
simple, yet convenient, uses of <i>xmodmap</i> is to set the
keyboard&rsquo;s &quot;rubout&quot; key to generate an
alternate keysym. This frequently involves exchanging
Backspace with Delete to be more comfortable to the user. If
the <i>ttyModes</i> resource in <i>xterm</i> is set as well,
all terminal emulator windows will use the same key for
erasing characters:</p>

<pre style="margin-left:11%;">%  xmodmap -e &quot;keysym BackSpace = Delete&quot;
%  echo &quot;XTerm*ttyModes:  erase ^?&quot; | xrdb -merge</pre>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Some keyboards
do not automatically generate less than and greater than
characters when the comma and period keys are shifted. This
can be remedied with <i>xmodmap</i> by resetting the
bindings for the comma and period with the following
scripts:</p>

<pre style="margin-left:11%;">!
! make shift-, be &lt; and shift-. be &gt;
!
keysym comma = comma less
keysym period = period greater</pre>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">One of the more
irritating differences between keyboards is the location of
the Control and Shift Lock keys. A common use of
<i>xmodmap</i> is to swap these two keys as follows:</p>

<pre style="margin-left:11%;">!
! Swap Caps_Lock and Control_L
!
remove Lock = Caps_Lock
remove Control = Control_L
keysym Control_L = Caps_Lock
keysym Caps_Lock = Control_L
add Lock = Caps_Lock
add Control = Control_L</pre>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">This example
can be run again to swap the keys back to their previous
assignments.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>keycode</i> command is useful for assigning the same
keysym to multiple keycodes. Although unportable, it also
makes it possible to write scripts that can reset the
keyboard to a known state. The following script sets the
backspace key to generate Delete (as shown above), flushes
all existing caps lock bindings, makes the CapsLock key be a
control key, make F5 generate Escape, and makes Break/Reset
be a shift lock.</p>

<pre style="margin-left:11%;">!
! On the HP, the following keycodes have key caps as listed:
!
!     101  Backspace
!      55  Caps
!      14  Ctrl
!      15  Break/Reset
!      86  Stop
!      89  F5
!
keycode 101 = Delete
keycode 55 = Control_R
clear Lock
add Control = Control_R
keycode 89 = Escape
keycode 15 = Caps_Lock
add Lock = Caps_Lock</pre>


<h2 id="heading7">ENVIRONMENT
</h2>



<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="11%"></col>
<col width="1%" class="center"></col>
<col width="60%"></col>
<col width="17%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>DISPLAY</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">to get default host and display
number.</p> </td>
<td>
</td></tr>
</table>

<h2 id="heading8">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>, <a href="../man1/xev.1.xhtml"><em>xev</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man1/setxkbmap.1.xhtml"><em>setxkbmap</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man3/XStringToKeysym.3.xhtml"><em>XStringToKeysym</em>(3)</a>, <i>Xlib</i> documentation
on key and pointer events</p>

<h2 id="heading9">BUGS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Every time a
<b>keycode</b> expression is evaluated, the server generates
a <i>MappingNotify</i> event on every client. This can cause
some thrashing. All of the changes should be batched
together and done at once. Clients that receive keyboard
input and ignore <i>MappingNotify</i> events will not notice
any changes made to keyboard mappings.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Xmodmap</i>
should generate &quot;add&quot; and &quot;remove&quot;
expressions automatically whenever a keycode that is already
bound to a modifier is changed.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">There should be
a way to have the <i>remove</i> expression accept keycodes
as well as keysyms for those times when you really mess up
your mappings.</p>

<h2 id="heading10">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Jim Fulton, MIT
X Consortium, rewritten from an earlier version by David
Rosenthal of Sun Microsystems.</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
