<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:47 2012 -->
<title>XREFRESH</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XREFRESH</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">ARGUMENTS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">X DEFAULTS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">ENVIRONMENT</a><br/>
<a href="#heading7">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading8">BUGS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading9">AUTHORS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xrefresh -
refresh all or part of an X screen</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xrefresh</b>
[-option ...]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><i>Xrefresh</i>
is a simple X program that causes all or part of your screen
to be repainted. This is useful when system messages have
messed up your screen. <i>Xrefresh</i> maps a window on top
of the desired area of the screen and then immediately
unmaps it, causing refresh events to be sent to all
applications. By default, a window with no background is
used, causing all applications to repaint
&lsquo;&lsquo;smoothly.&rsquo;&rsquo; However, the various
options can be used to indicate that a solid background (of
any color) or the root window background should be used
instead.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">ARGUMENTS
</h2>


<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="9%"></col>
<col width="6%" class="center"></col>
<col width="74%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em"><b>&minus;white</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p style="margin-top: 1em">Use a white background. The
screen just appears to flash quickly, and then repaint.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;black</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Use a black background (in effect, turning off all of
the electron guns to the tube). This can be somewhat
disorienting as everything goes black for a moment.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;solid</b>
<i>color</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:26%;">Use a solid background of the
specified color. Try green.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="7%"></col>
<col width="8%" class="center"></col>
<col width="74%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;root</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Use the root window background.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>&minus;none</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This is the default. All of the windows simply
repaint.</p> </td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;geometry</b>
<i>WxH+X+Y</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:26%;">Specifies the portion of the
screen to be repainted; see <i><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></i>.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>&minus;display</b>
<i>display</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:26%;">This argument allows you to
specify the server and screen to refresh; see
<i><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></i>.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">X DEFAULTS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>xrefresh</i> program uses the routine
<i><a href="../man3/XGetDefault.3.xhtml"><em>XGetDefault</em>(3)</a></i> to read defaults, so its resource
names are all capitalized. <b><br/>
Black</b>, <b>White</b>, <b>Solid</b>, <b>None</b>,
<b>Root</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Determines what sort of window
background to use.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>Geometry</b></p>

<p style="margin-left:23%;">Determines the area to refresh.
Not very useful.</p>

<h2 id="heading6">ENVIRONMENT
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">DISPLAY - To
get default host and display number.</p>

<h2 id="heading7">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading8">BUGS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">It should have
just one default type for the background.</p>

<h2 id="heading9">AUTHORS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Jim Gettys,
Digital Equipment Corp., MIT Project Athena</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
