<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:22:40 2012 -->
<title>XSETROOT</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XSETROOT</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">OPTIONS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">SEE ALSO</a><br/>
<a href="#heading6">AUTHOR</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">xsetroot
&minus; root window parameter setting utility for X</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>



<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><b>xsetroot</b>
[-help] [-def] [-display <i>display</i>] [-cursor
<i>cursorfile maskfile</i>] [-cursor_name <i>cursorname</i>]
[-xcf <i>cursorfile cursorsize</i>] [-bitmap
<i>filename</i>] [-mod <i>x y</i>] [-gray] [-grey] [-fg
<i>color</i>] [-bg <i>color</i>] [-rv] [-solid <i>color</i>]
[-name <i>string</i>]</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The
<i>xsetroot</i> program allows you to tailor the appearance
of the background (&quot;root&quot;) window on a workstation
display running X. Normally, you experiment with
<i>xsetroot</i> until you find a personalized look that you
like, then put the <i>xsetroot</i> command that produces it
into your X startup file. If no options are specified, or if
<i>-def</i> is specified, the window is reset to its default
state. The <i>-def</i> option can be specified along with
other options and only the non-specified characteristics
will be reset to the default state.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Only one of the
background color/tiling changing options (-solid, -gray,
-grey, -bitmap, and -mod) may be specified at a time.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">OPTIONS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The various
options are as follows:</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="7%"></col>
<col width="4%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-help</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Print a usage message and exit.</p></td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-def</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Reset unspecified attributes to the default values.
(Restores the background to the familiar gray mesh and the
cursor to the hollow x shape.)</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-cursor</b> <i>cursorfile
maskfile</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This lets you change the
pointer cursor to whatever you want when the pointer cursor
is outside of any window. Cursor and mask files are bitmaps
(little pictures), and can be made with the <i><a href="../man1/bitmap.1.xhtml"><em>bitmap</em>(1)</a></i>
program. You probably want the mask file to be all black
until you get used to the way masks work.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-cursor_name</b>
<i>cursorname</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This lets you change the
pointer cursor to one of the standard cursors from the
cursor font. Refer to appendix B of the X protocol for the
names (except that the XC_ prefix is elided for this
option).</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-xcf</b> <i>cursorfile
cursorsize</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This lets you change the
pointer cursor to one loaded from an Xcursor file as defined
by libXcursor, at the specified size.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-bitmap</b>
<i>filename</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Use the bitmap specified in the
file to set the window pattern. You can make your own bitmap
files (little pictures) using the <i><a href="../man1/bitmap.1.xhtml"><em>bitmap</em>(1)</a></i> program.
The entire background will be made up of repeated
&quot;tiles&quot; of the bitmap.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-mod</b> <i>x y</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This is used if you want a
plaid-like grid pattern on your screen. x and y are integers
ranging from 1 to 16. Try the different combinations. Zero
and negative numbers are taken as 1.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="7%"></col>
<col width="4%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-gray</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Make the entire background gray. (Easier on the
eyes.)</p> </td></tr>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-grey</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>Make the entire background grey.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-fg</b> <i>color</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Use
&lsquo;&lsquo;color&rsquo;&rsquo; as the foreground color.
Foreground and background colors are meaningful only in
combination with -cursor, -bitmap, or -mod.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-bg</b> <i>color</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Use
&lsquo;&lsquo;color&rsquo;&rsquo; as the background
color.</p>

<table width="100%" border="0" rules="none" frame="void"
       cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0">
<colgroup><col width="11%"></col>
<col width="4%"></col>
<col width="7%" class="center"></col>
<col width="78%"></col>
</colgroup>
<tr valign="top" align="left">
<td></td>
<td>


<p><b>-rv</b></p></td>
<td></td>
<td>


<p>This exchanges the foreground and background colors.
Normally the foreground color is black and the background
color is white.</p></td></tr>
</table>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-solid</b> <i>color</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">This sets the background of the
root window to the specified color. This option is only
useful on color servers.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-name</b> <i>string</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Set the name of the root window
to &lsquo;&lsquo;string&rsquo;&rsquo;. There is no default
value. Usually a name is assigned to a window so that the
window manager can use a text representation when the window
is iconified. This option is unused since you can&rsquo;t
iconify the background.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%;"><b>-display</b>
<i>display</i></p>

<p style="margin-left:22%;">Specifies the server to connect
to; see <i><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a></i>.</p>

<h2 id="heading5">SEE ALSO
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em"><a href="../man7/X.7.xhtml"><em>X</em>(7)</a>, <a href="../man1/xset.1.xhtml"><em>xset</em>(1)</a>,
<a href="../man1/xrdb.1.xhtml"><em>xrdb</em>(1)</a>, <a href="../man3/Xcursor.3.xhtml"><em>Xcursor</em>(3)</a></p>

<h2 id="heading6">AUTHOR
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Mark
Lillibridge, MIT Project Athena</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
