<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:48 2012 -->
<title>XORGFOUNDATION</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XORGFOUNDATION</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">ADDRESSES</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">XOrgFoundation
&minus; X.Org Foundation information</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Release 6.7 and
later of X Version 11 is brought to you by the X.Org
Foundation.</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The X.Org
Foundation is an independent, not-for-profit 501(c)(3)
charity corporation. It was formed in 2004 as the successor
to the X.Org Group at The Open Group. The purpose of the
X.Org Foundation is to foster the development, evolution,
and maintenance of the X Window System, a comprehensive set
of vendor-neutral, system-architecture neutral,
network-transparent windowing and user interface standards.
Membership in the X.Org Foundation is free and open to
anyone. The X.Org Foundation hosts a public git repository
of the source code on freedesktop.org.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The X Window
System was created in the mid-1980s at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. In 1988, MIT formed a member-funded
consortium to provide the technical and administrative
leadership necessary to support further development of the X
Window System. In 1992, MIT and the membership decided it
was in their best interests to move the consortium out of
MIT and create an independent, stand-alone organization. All
rights to the X Window System were assigned by MIT to X
Consortium, Inc. on January 1, 1994. On December 31, 1996
the X Consortium, Inc. closed its doors and all rights to
the X Window System were assigned to The Open Group (then
known as the Open Software Foundation).</p>

<h2 id="heading4">ADDRESSES
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The X.Org
Foundation&rsquo;s web site is http://www.x.org/</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The X.Org
Foundation&rsquo;s public ftp site is ftp://ftp.x.org/</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Information
about the X.Org Foundation git repository is on the X.Org
web site at http://www.x.org/wiki/Development/git</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
