<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"
 [<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">]>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<link href="http://www.x.org/" rel="home" />
<link href="index.xhtml" rel="up" />
<link rel="SHORTCUT ICON" href="../../../favicon.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../xorg.css" />
<meta name="generator" content="groff -Txhtml, see www.gnu.org"/>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta name="Content-Style" content="text/css"/>
<style type="text/css">
       .center { text-align: center }
       .right  { text-align: right }
       p       { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       pre     { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       table   { margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0; vertical-align: top }
       h1      { text-align: center }
</style>
<!-- Creator     : groff version 1.20.1 -->
<!-- CreationDate: Sun Apr 15 13:45:58 2012 -->
<title>XORG</title>

</head>
<body>

<h1>XORG</h1>

<p><a href="#heading1">NAME</a><br/>
<a href="#heading2">SYNOPSIS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading3">DESCRIPTION</a><br/>
<a href="#heading4">ADDRESS</a><br/>
<a href="#heading5">FULL MEMBERS</a><br/>

</p>
<hr/>


<h2 id="heading1">NAME
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">X.Org,
XProjectTeam &minus; X.Org Group information</p>

<h2 id="heading2">SYNOPSIS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Release 6.5 and
6.6 of X Version 11 was brought to you by The X.Org Group.
Release 6.4 of X Version 11 was brought to you by The X
Project Team.</p>

<h2 id="heading3">DESCRIPTION
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The Open
Group&rsquo;s X Project Team was created as the successor to
the X Consortium, Inc., after the X Consortium ceased
operations and transferred ownership of X11 to The Open
Group. The X.Org Group (hereinafter called
&quot;X.Org&quot;) was created as the successor to The X
Project Team after the The Open Group ceased operating The X
Project Team. The purpose of X.Org was to foster
development, evolution, and maintenance of the X Window
System. X.Org operates under the corporate umbrella of The
Open Group.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The X
Consortium was an independent, not-for-profit Delaware
membership corporation. It was formed in 1993 as the
successor to the MIT X Consortium.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">The X Window
System was created in the mid-1980s at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. In 1988, MIT formed a member-funded
consortium to provide the technical and administrative
leadership necessary to support further development of the X
Window System. In 1992, MIT and the membership decided it
was in their best interests to move the consortium out of
MIT and create an independent, stand-alone organization. All
rights to the X Window System were assigned by MIT to X
Consortium, Inc. on January 1, 1994. On December 31, 1996
the X Consortium, Inc. closed its doors and all rights to
the X Window System were assigned to The Open Group.</p>

<h2 id="heading4">ADDRESS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">To reach The
Open Group public World Wide Web server, use
http://www.opengroup.org/.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">To reach The
X.Org public World Wide Web server, use
http://www.x.org/.</p>

<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">To reach The
X.Org public ftp machine, use anonymous ftp at
ftp://ftp.x.org/</p>

<h2 id="heading5">FULL MEMBERS
</h2>


<p style="margin-left:11%; margin-top: 1em">Attachmate
<br/>
Barco <br/>
Compaq <br/>
Hewlett-Packard <br/>
Hummingbird <br/>
IBM <br/>
ICS <br/>
Metro Link <br/>
MITRE <br/>
Shiman Associates <br/>
Silicon Graphics Incorporated <br/>
Starnet Communications <br/>
Sun Microsystems <br/>
The XFree86 Project <br/>
US Navy <br/>
WRQ <br/>
Xi Graphics</p>
<hr/>
</body>
</html>
